There are holiday embracers and holiday dissenters. Those for whom the season is about celebration and those who seek solace as soon as the evergreens come out. For both groups, however, there is new music this year — a soundtrack for all the seasonal moods. There are traditional holiday tunes polished to a sheen; songs that approach festive joy through completely new musical lenses; and numbers that use familiar frameworks to deliver subversive messages. So whether your Christmas is a merry one or a grumpy one, press play.

Eric Clapton, ‘Happy Xmas’

Christmas celebrations take place in homes, in offices and at performance venues. But they also happen in bars, the darkened sort where glee goes to die, or at least drown itself in a pileup of pints. Eric Clapton’s “Happy Xmas” is for those places: the anti-celebrations. This set of modestly scaled blues remakings of classics finds dignity in the downtrodden. Clapton sings with emotion that ranges from worn-out to weepy, and his guitar is a cudgel of cloudy gloom. Together, they make for songs that hold the exuberance of the rest of the world at bay, at least for one eve.

Rodney Crowell, ‘Christmas Everywhere’

A rollicking Christmas album from an old country punk with a rich skepticism about holiday traditions, Rodney Crowell’s “Christmas Everywhere” is good-natured and wry, an album about how adults struggle to process a holiday oriented toward children. The jaunty “Christmas Everywhere” is a quizzical shrug about scrambling to satisfy everyone’s needs. And “Merry Christmas From an Empty Bed,” a stark duet with Brennen Leigh, refracts the holiday through the tragic loneliness it can engender. That aside, throughout most of this album, Crowell is having fun — singing with arched eyebrow and tongue firmly in cheek. But it’s telling that the happiest song here is called “Let’s Skip Christmas This Year.”

[Read about some of this year’s holiday-themed events.]

Engelbert Humperdinck, ‘Warmest Christmas Wishes’

Let warm oil pour over you this holiday season — the perfect croon of Engelbert Humperdinck is back. “Warmest Christmas Wishes” is his second album of new recordings in two years, following a several-year drought, and it is peak holiday schlock, a hearty and unerringly smooth nog. He still has a meaty voice, his phrasing polished to a gleam by thousands of nights on Vegas stages. There are a couple of originals here, but skip right to the chestnuts — “I’ll Be Home for Christmas,” “What Are You Doing New Year’s Eve?” — platonic-ideal versions delivered without an ounce of camp.