As the brand’s creative director for makeup and color, a role she assumed four years ago, Pica is responsible for the creation of seven to eight new makeup collections annually (each comprising 20 or so new colors). Over the years, she has become known for her embrace of bold, rich hues, sometimes cultivated from dedicated research trips to places like California, Tokyo and her hometown, Naples.

Back at the Mercer Hotel, or perhaps more fittingly, base camp Chanel, an army of Chanel-clad employees with American and French accents occupy the downstairs lobby. Upstairs, Pica briefs an eight-person makeup team on the show’s beauty concept: a relatively minimal look contrasted by a single brush stroke surrounding the eye in black, white, deep blue or gold, to match the season’s Egyptian-influenced collection. “This show is inspired by ancient Egypt, but I wanted to have a more futuristic take on it — something really aerodynamic and strong,” she explains. The result is a kind of hybrid between Cleopatra and “Blade Runner.”

The next day, with just a few hours left until showtime, workers prepare the Met’s cordoned-off Egyptian wing for the big event. (Models will process around the Temple of Dendur for the show.) Pica and her 37-person team are stationed in the basement. She is moving quickly now, and she calls to everyone that they should finish as many looks as possible before they pause for rehearsal.

When the models return from their walk-through, several will also need to have their legs varnished with gold body paint (an especially dramatic nod to ancient Egyptian iconography). Some models have black-rimmed eyes, others wear swipes of white and deep blue. Each gel liner stroke, however, must be adapted to their individual facial contours. Pica moves from one station to the next, reviewing each artist’s work. “I feel good. I got a good night’s sleep, I didn’t make it to a yoga class, but I got up and did some meditation and chanting this morning. I’m getting really funny and spiritual in my old age,” she says, smiling. “I just have to focus today.”