For as long as I can remember, I’ve always been interested in how people move in everyday life. The way someone leaps over a puddle in the gutter to hail a cab or the way one person holds a door for another. Or even the way cooks in a restaurant kitchen work with synchronicity in their confined quarters. Ordinary acts like this, I find, can contain extraordinary grace and beauty.

I spend a lot of my time observing people in New York for these kinds of moments. And if I look closely enough, there are constant snippets of movement to draw from. I’m not the first choreographer to search for inspiration in the city. Merce Cunningham was said to peer down from his studio window in the West Village at the street below to observe how pedestrians moved through space. George Balanchine spoke of the elegance of the waiters circulating through the Russian Tea Room. Maybe this study of the mundane is just part of the choreographer’s instinct.

That instinct became the jumping-off point for this series of Great Performers films simple gestures drawn from the everyday. Sometimes I combined those with comedic nods to films from the Hollywood Golden Age (Gene Kelly dancing joyously through a downpour; Fred Astaire in his signature top hat and cane). Humor in dance is tough to pull off, but it can be so satisfying; it’s one of the most honest and bright human expressions.

I began the process by devising simple, one-paragraph scenarios for each actor. Ethan Hawke’s short, “Table Manners,” is inspired by the anxiety of selecting the right fork at a fancy dinner. Eager to dive into his meal, his character keeps looking down at his plate to find that the silverware seems to be spontaneously multiplying until the entire table is covered with forks, knives and spoons. His anxiety builds to a breaking point that finally sets him off into a wild, toreadorlike dance, whipping up the tablecloth and sending the flatware and food flying.

The increasingly difficult New York City subway commute inspired Julia Roberts’s short, “The Commuter”: when the trains are crowded and barely moving, and you just want to close your eyes and be transported to a different world. For Roberts’s character, that world became a fantasy dance sequence in which she’s dressed in a tuxedo, complete with top hat and tails. Suddenly, she’s her own version of Fred Astaire soft-shoeing euphorically through a completely empty subway car.

Yoo Ah-in’s short, “Waiting Room,” is about dance as an expression of boredom. His setting is a waiting room — perhaps a doctor’s office or a D.M.V. The short is made up of unconscious, fidgety gestures that build into a rhythmic dance among the drab furniture. Regina Hall’s “Rise and Shine” is also an accumulation of gestures, this time based on the moment when you’re waking up in the morning and just getting your body moving. Some people, especially dancers, have a routine to get themselves going — stretches and exercises and things like that. I wanted to turn the dilemma of staying in bed versus waking up into a pattern of movement.

The parameters for this project were unusually specific. Most of the actors had very little dance experience. We had almost no rehearsal time and only a couple of hours with each actor. A lot had to be improvised in the moment. The actors often came in nervous to be asked to dance; some of them knew that I’m the resident choreographer at the New York City Ballet, and that may have scared them a little. I think it helped when I told them they weren’t going to be asked to execute virtuosic dance phrases. Lifelike gestures can be part of dance, too; so can the look on someone’s face. Once the actors understood that I wanted to meet them where they were, they all took to the process and seemed to revel in it.

In many ways, the project was about discovering dance in unexpected places. Yalitza Aparicio, for example, had no dance training, but we were able to create a sense of motion through the specificity of movements that we gave her to perform. The idea behind her short, “The Daisy,” was incredibly simple: the act of picking a flower. But the simplicity quickly turned into a polyphonic interaction between Aparicio, the daisy and the Steadicam filming her. Aparicio brought a special, tender quality to her interaction with the daisy. The viewer can almost sense the fragrance of the flower as it lifts her into movement. These kinds of moments — where acting and dance intersect — were exactly what I was looking for.

I was over the moon working with Glenn Close. She is a consummate theater actor, but even she was a bit apprehensive at first. I mentioned Gene Kelly’s iconic mop dance from “Thousands Cheer,” which was a reference for her scenario, about a maintenance worker on her midnight shift who breaks into dance while mopping the floor. We took to the dance floor, and I showed her a couple of gestures with the mop; we exchanged several ideas for movements, and then she just started to run with it. Sometimes she would dance for five minutes straight in a single take. Her footwork was particularly noteworthy and even reminded me of Twyla Tharp’s sneaker dances. By the end of the day, she was drenched in sweat — a testament to her enthusiasm.

One thing that caught my interest was the totally distinctive energy that each actor possesses. I felt it immediately as they came into the studio. Lakeith Stanfield seemed to float onto the set and had a boundless physical imagination: He stood on his hands, performed interpretive balletic leaps, even did cartwheels. Hawke had a curious, untrammeled energy: He was interested in everything around him. Toni Collette had a low-key ease. She and I couldn’t quite break the ice at first, until she noticed me tap-dancing around the set (sometimes I tap-dance when I’m thinking or when I’m nervous) and told me that she likes to tap-dance, too. Straightaway, we started playing around with tap movement and improvised a synchronized duet together. For her short, “The Heebie-Jeebies,” we placed her in a nondescript attic. She starts to become creeped out by her surroundings, and when a spider web grazes her arm, she dances a manic elaboration on the visceral feeling of the heebie-jeebies. In performance, she had all cylinders firing as the cameras were rolling. She was fully committed.