Anna Netrebko

It was a gamble for this soprano to sing the touchstone title role of Puccini’s “Tosca” for the first time ever this spring at the Metropolitan Opera. But she knew what she was doing. From her first entrance, Ms. Netrebko was every bit Puccini’s passionate, vulnerable and charismatic heroine, a renowned prima donna in 1800 Rome. She captured every nuance of the music and Tosca’s volatile emotions with rapturous, tender, fierce singing. She was just as riveting at the Met this fall in the title role of Verdi’s “Aida.” The Met’s general manager, Peter Gelb, should follow her around with contracts in hand.

Daniil Trifonov

I expected beautiful Chopin from this young Russian pianist, a brilliant virtuoso with poetic sensibilities, in two programs early this year that were part of his Perspectives series at Carnegie Hall. But I was impressed by his formidable playing of nine daunting 20th-century works in the ambitious concert with which he ended his series. Called “Decades,” the program offered Mr. Trifonov’s personal survey of the century, with works by Berg, Prokofiev, Bartok, Copland, Messiaen, Ligeti, Stockhausen and more. We are used to watching him play challenging concertos and études effortlessly. But on this night, Mr. Trifonov let us see him sweat.

George Benjamin

Since its premiere in 2012, the opera “Written on Skin,” by this British composer and the librettist Martin Crimp, has been produced around the world and acclaimed as one of the most important operas of our time. Could the team do it again? Yes, as they proved in May with the premiere of “Lessons in Love and Violence” at the Royal Opera House in London. Mining the relationship of Edward II and his courier Piers Gaveston, this disturbingly tragic opera offers an object lesson in what can transpire when an absolute ruler conflates his personal desires with the identity of his suffering nation. Mr. Benjamin’s score, though unabashedly modernist, was beguiling and mysterious.

Huang Ruo

In 2011, a 19-year-old Army private named Danny Chen killed himself at an outpost in Afghanistan after suffering months of vicious hazing and racist taunts. Three years later, this composer and the playwright David Henry Hwang turned the harrowing story into a 60-minute chamber opera. Taking a risk, they expanded the piece into a full two-hour work, “An American Soldier,” which had its premiere this summer at Opera Theater of St. Louis. This inventive and searing opera could not have been more relevant in an America riven by issues of race, war and bullying. The opera shifts between scenes in which the ghost of Pvt. Chen witnesses the trial of his sergeant for negligent homicide, and flashbacks from his teenage life: hanging out with friends in New York’s Chinatown, making dinner with his mother in the kitchen, arriving for basic training full of patriotism and zeal.