She began with Saeed, her Iranian contact. Micro-targeted spear phishing would be much more potent than the SQL injection and DDoS attacks they had used to cripple American banking websites. Her database would provide a rash of entry points for their malware to take down Saudi oil fields.

Salâam alaikum. Our auction ends in 4 minutes. Just between us, the Chinese are coming in with a billion at the close. I’d rather you win AND stick it to the American infidels by paying me with their hostage ransom money. Are you going to let their crippling sanctions and the Israeli destruction of your priceless centrifuges go unanswered?

She waited for a reply, but heard just the drumming of her own heart. She moved on to Pak, her North Korean connection. Their Reconnaissance General Bureau was at least 5,000 hackers strong and adept at brute force cyberattacks. Their email hack of Sony Pictures for the lampooning of their supreme leader had devastated the company. With Sofie’s database, they could take down more financial institutions and military agencies, keep themselves on the world stage and finance their feeble economy at the same time.

정식여보세요. Billion dollar bid just came in from your neighbor. Show your rivals you are no laughingstock. Long live North Korean strength, unpredictability and wily intelligence!

Her laptop pinged. She pumped her fist: Her two messages were just opened.

Three minutes and counting. Sofie forged ahead and considered how best to rile Misha. He represented a coalition that included the Russian government, wealthy oligarchs and criminal gangs. Should she emphasize the financial gain possible with the pairing of her database and the massive storehouse of credit card information that their mafia had already amassed? The opportunity to disrupt Western military, electrical and banking infrastructures? The ability to misinform, divide and reshape Western opinions? She went for the highest stake.

Приве́т. Auction for the weapon of the century is ending. The Chinese have sent in a kill bid. I’m obligated to take it, but hey, I make the rules. I’d prefer my database be used to change elections and blackmail hypocritical, holier-than-thou American politicians. And smarmy British toadies. And German rats. You have 90 seconds to win this.