3. What are the two chambers of the Wisconsin Legislature? How many Republicans and how many Democrats voted in favor of the bills?

4. In the face of vehement protests, how have Republican legislators defended the measures?

5. In what other Midwestern states did Democrats recently defeat Republicans in elections for governor? Michigan is also considering legislation that could limit the powers of an incoming Democratic governor. How are these proposals different from the legislation just passed in Wisconsin?

6. What aspects of the Wisconsin bills will affect the powers of the incoming Democratic attorney general, Josh Kaul? How might the bills prevent Mr. Kaul and Mr. Evers from keeping campaign promises to withdraw the state from a lawsuit challenging the Affordable Care Act?

7. The author quotes several protesters in the Capitol:

Andy Olsen of Madison accused Republicans of rejecting “the basic fundamental ground rules of American democracy.” Martha Pincus of Fox Point said Republicans were “disrespecting their constituents.”

What do the protesters mean by these statements? What does the passage of the bills have to do with respect or democracy?

Finally, tell us more about what you think:

— What is your reaction to the vote in the Wisconsin Legislature? Do you think the measures undermine democracy? Or is this just politics as usual?

— In the related article, “Wisconsin Republicans Defiantly Move to Limit the Power of Incoming Democrats,” Mr. Evers, the incoming Democratic governor, responded to the bill:

“Wisconsin has never seen anything like this,” Mr. Evers said in a statement. “Wisconsin values of decency, kindness, and finding common ground were pushed aside so a handful of people could desperately usurp and cling to power while hidden away from the very people they represent.”

The authors also quote members from each political party:

During news conferences and on the floor of the Assembly this week, Mr. Vos defended the legislation as a necessary check on executive power and brushed aside claims of an undemocratic power grab. “What it does is make sure we have an equal amount of power at the table,” Mr. Vos said. His tone was brusque at times, accusing the Democrats of fanning hysteria and overstating the effects of the bills. “You are so grossly exaggerating the words of this bill it makes me sick,” Mr. Vos said. Other times, Mr. Vos sounded more conciliatory. “I certainly don’t think that what Governor Evers ran on is evil. I think that he loves Wisconsin,” Mr. Vos said shortly before the final vote Wednesday. “No one here doesn’t respect the state. We have different paths to get to the same destination.” But Gordon Hintz, the Democratic leader in the Assembly, said the legislation undermined the power of democratically elected officials. “We’re here because you don’t trust Tony Evers and you don’t want to give up power,” he said. “You’re sore losers.”

Which arguments are more persuasive? Are the Democrats exaggerating the possible impact of the bills? Do you think the Republicans would have proposed and voted for the legislation had Mr. Walker won a third term?

— The bills will now move to the desk of the outgoing governor, Mr. Walker, who is expected to sign them. How would you advise him?