She visits Pence’s former congregation in Indianapolis, where the pastor is completing 18 months of sermons on exile, a recurring theme in the Bible. Pence, she notes, is partial to Old Testament narratives in his speeches; stories of the Israelites’ long banishment in Babylon resonate with contemporary Christians “who saw themselves as a religious minority in a hostile pagan empire — a people who had long mistaken Washington, D.C., for Jerusalem.” During the summer of 2016, while Pence was auditioning for the role of presidential running mate, his pastor dwelled on Daniel, an Israelite who stayed true to his faith while serving as chief adviser to the pagan tyrant Nebuchadnezzar — “an angry, irrational king,” the pastor called him, likening Daniel’s situation to that of “the vice presidency, if you will, of the country.”

“We now live in a world shaped by evangelicals’ apocalyptic hopes, dreams and nightmares,” O’Gieblyn quotes one scholar as saying. After reading her book, one could hardly disagree. “I imagined myself exiting a primitive cave and striding onto terra firma,” she writes of the moment when she turned her back on religion. “But as it turns out, the material world is every bit as elusive as the superstitions I’d left behind.”

Heather Havrilesky is a different kind of apostate. An advice columnist for New York magazine and the author of a wry memoir about an unremarkable childhood, she declares herself in “What if This Were Enough?,” her collection of essays, a defector from American culture — its “enforced cheer,” its rampant materialism, its frenetic pace, its inauthenticity. Her dismay, to judge from her introduction — six pages in which she delivers her verdict in unvarnished terms, condemning our national “poison,” “sickness,” “lies,” “delusions,” “false narratives” and “shared hallucinations” — is considerable. Trump lurks unnamed between the lines.

Image

Havrilesky’s grand pronouncements are so sweeping and so numerous — “our culture exerts a constant pressure on us that severs our relationship to ourselves and each other,” “our compassion for ourselves and for others remains underdeveloped,” “our whole lives are passing us by, but we hardly notice” — they quickly cease to arouse strong feelings of assent or disagreement. Similarly, her counsel: “We have to breathe in reality instead of distracting ourselves around the clock,” “we must believe in and embrace the conflicted nature of humankind,” “shut out the noise and enjoy exactly who you are and what you have, right here, right now.”

She’s banking on at least a few of these slogans resonating with every reader. But the self-help framework — the stentorian assertions of diagnosis and cure — does Havrilesky a disservice. She can be a warm and funny writer, a savvy close reader, idiosyncratic, urbane. Her advice column stands out not so much for its practical guidance but for the empathy in which she wraps her message of self-empowerment — and for its comic riffs (“If you want to find love, you can’t try to seem cooler than you really are. Love doesn’t honor that kind of marketing effort”).

When Havrilesky ditches the forced affinity of “we” for the more modest claims of “I,” she has some poignant things to say. She is good at wresting fresh nuance from familiar touchstones, and arranging them into incisive, opinionated narratives. “Haunted,” an impassioned meditation on the novelist Shirley Jackson, pans out to incorporate the television shows “Girls,” “Homeland” and “The Mindy Project” and the 7,200-word letter the victim of a 2015 sexual assault at Stanford wrote to her attacker (“a Jackson novel in miniature”). Women’s lives, Havrilesky contends, still too often imitate the contours of horror fiction: emotional seduction followed by humiliation and betrayal. “Jackson’s uncanny portraits of the fragmentation and collapse of the female psyche echo throughout contemporary culture,” she observes, “from the casual derision we lavish on all things female or feminine to the so-called fairy-tale marriages we celebrate in the pages of magazines, the ones that are later revealed to be nightmares of verbal and physical abuse.”