My Nana never explained to us why she’d chosen to go by a more culturally neutral shorthand for “grandmother” instead of the customary — and irresistible — Greek word “Yiayia.” She was a proud Greek-American who worked as a receptionist until she was 84, listened to Nana Mouskouri records on the hi-fi in her living room, and rolled dolmades so perfectly uniform they belonged in an encyclopedia of domestic miracles. “Chryso mou,” she used to say out loud when she took my sister’s face in her hands, then my older brother’s, and then mine; we were all her “golden one” (“dear one” is the less literal translation), but the fierceness and unselfishness of my Nana’s love made each of us feel as if we’d been singled out.

The Brooklyn-based illustrator and graphic designer Cecilia Ruiz captures the particular tenderness of grandmothers in A GIFT FROM ABUELA (Candlewick, 29 pp., $15.99; ages 4 to 8), her first book written expressly for young children. Ruiz’s “The Book of Memory Gaps” (2015) and “The Book of Extraordinary Deaths” (2018) are dazzlingly Goreyesque in their cataloging of suggestive memory disorders and evocative deaths from the seventh century B.C. to the present. “A Gift From Abuela,” with its block-printed illustrations in muted colors, is more modest in its storytelling and heartwarming in its message, though Ruiz still manages to capture complex social realities (the economic crisis in Mexico in the early 1990s, the alienation of older adults).

The story itself is simple: Abuela saves her hard-earned pesos to buy a special present for her beloved granddaughter Niña, though when the government devalues the peso and she fails to exchange it, the money becomes worthless. To lift Abuela’s spirits, Niña’s solution is to cut the old bills into pieces for elaborate papel picado banners and use them to decorate the drab apartment, allowing Ruiz to create an art-project-within-a-picture-book story that had my own 2-year-old transfixed. An abuela’s love is valued and returned in new and innovative forms. At the book’s end, Niña and Abuela are spending a Sunday in the park, having pan dulce and watching the people go by: “It was still their favorite thing to do,” Ruiz writes.