Dr. Howard A. “Skip” Burris III

President-elect of ASCO, the American Society of Clinical Oncology

Corporate affiliations: In recent years, several major drug companies that develop treatments for cancer — including AstraZeneca, Genentech and Novartis — have paid his employer, the Sarah Cannon Research Institute in Nashville, for his speaking and consulting work. He was also a principal investigator for a number of clinical trials, which drug makers sponsored and paid nearly $8 million to his employer, the Sarah Cannon Research Institute in Nashville.

Disclosure lapses: In more than 50 journal articles, Dr. Burris said he had no financial disclosures despite his work with several companies. The Sarah Cannon institute defended the omissions, saying the companies did not directly pay him. But many journals require all payments to be reported.

Recent corrections: The institute said he would submit updated disclosures for a number of articles. And on Dec. 6, the New England Journal of Medicine posted his corrections and updated disclosures, which listed affiliations with 30 companies.

A journal article correction filed this week by Dr. Burris discloses grants and other payments from 30 companies. New England Journal of Medicine







Dr. Robert J. Alpern

Dean, Yale School of Medicine

Corporate affiliations: On the board of directors of Tricida, a company that is devising treatments for chronic kidney disease. Its lead product, TRC101, is swallowed but not absorbed by the body, removing acid as it goes through the digestive tract. Dr. Alpern also holds stock in the company.

Disclosure lapses: In an article in the Clinical Journal of the American Society of Nephrology published last year, Dr. Alpern reported that he was a consultant for Tricida but did not reveal his role on the board or his stock ownership. The study itself was sponsored by Tricida.

Recent corrections: Dr. Alpern was initially told by journal editors that no additional disclosure was needed. After The New York Times and ProPublica inquired, the journal’s editor said the article would be corrected and the journal would begin an audit of some of its recent articles. The editor also said that none of the article’s 12 authors fully disclosed their corporate ties.







Dr. Carlos L. Arteaga

Director, Harold C. Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center in Dallas

Corporate affiliations: Received tens of thousands of dollars in recent years from drug makers that are developing cancer treatments, including Eli Lilly, Genentech and Novartis.

Disclosure lapses: Said he had “nothing to disclose” in a 2016 article in The New England Journal of Medicine about a study of the Novartis breast cancer drug Kisqali. That study eventually led to the drug’s approval in 2017. Dr. Arteaga collected more than $14,000 from Novartis during the three-year disclosure period.

Recent corrections: Dr. Arteaga corrected his disclosures with the journal, and described his failure as an “inexcusable oversight.”







Dr. Denise Yardley

Senior investigator, the Sarah Cannon Research Institute in Nashville.

Corporate affiliations: Drug companies paid her institution tens of thousands of dollars for her consulting and speaking work, including manufacturers like Genentech, Eisai and Novartis.

Disclosure lapses: Dr. Yardley failed to disclose any potential conflicts in the same New England Journal of Medicine study as Dr. Arteaga and Dr. Burris. Her institution was paid more than $105,000 during the three-year disclosure period for her consulting and other work for drug companies, including more than $31,000 from Novartis.

Recent corrections: The New England Journal of Medicine corrected the disclosures on the Kisqali study on Dec. 6. Dr. Yardley noted relationships, research and otherwise, with 37 companies.







Dr. José Baselga

Former chief medical officer, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center

Corporate affiliations: Received millions of dollars from companies involved in treating and diagnosing cancer, from advising biotech start-ups to serving on the board of the major drug company Bristol-Myers Squibb. He resigned from the board of Bristol-Myers in September.

Disclosure lapses: Omitted his financial ties from dozens of journal articles in recent years, including in major publications like The New England Journal of Medicine and The Lancet. He also failed to disclose relationships in articles published in Cancer Discovery, while he served as one of two editors-in-chief.

Recent corrections: He has since corrected his disclosures in a number of studies, including in The New England Journal of Medicine and in Cancer Discovery.







Dr. Jedd Wolchok

Pioneering immunotherapy researcher at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center

Corporate affiliations: He has disclosed relationships with more than 30 companies, from large manufacturers like Merck to start-ups like BeiGene. The ties range from receiving consulting fees to owning stock to being a co-founder of a company.

Disclosure lapses: He failed to disclose these relationships in more than a dozen articles and letters to the editor in The New England Journal of Medicine and other publications.

Recent corrections: Dr. Wolchok has since updated his disclosures, and said that he believed they were adequate when he submitted them. But after reviewing his publications this fall, he decided to make the corrections “out of an abundance of caution.”







Dr. Craig Thompson

Chief executive, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center

Corporate affiliations: A founder of the cancer start-up Agios Pharmaceuticals and served on the board of the drug maker Merck as well as Charles River Laboratories, another health care company. He resigned his board positions in October.

Disclosure lapses: Did not include a conflict-of-interest statement in an article published earlier this year in the Journal of Clinical Investigation.