For Republicans ceding control of the House to Democrats come January, the seven remaining appropriations bills serve as the last foreseeable opportunity to ensure that Mr. Trump has the wall money he once promised Mexico would provide.

But Democrats, with their support needed to overcome the 60-vote threshold in the Senate and with a House majority just a month away, see no reason to acquiesce to Republican demands. And a stopgap spending bill that goes into January would allow for Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democrats’ nominee for speaker, to control the issue in the House and dictate the terms of any future border security funding.

In the Senate, lawmakers indicated last week that they would probably reject a compromise offer from House Republicans that would have given Mr. Trump the $5 billion he has insisted on for his border wall. Senator Richard C. Shelby, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, had floated the possibility of allocating $5 billion over two years as a way to reconcile Mr. Trump’s demands with those of Democrats.

But Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, and other Democratic lawmakers have vehemently denounced the notion of providing $5 billion, arguing that the bipartisan Senate bill’s $1.6 billion allocation for fencing was more than adequate for enhanced border security.

“This is the president trying to manufacture a shutdown to fire up his base,” Mr. Schumer said on the Senate floor last week. His chamber’s bill or a yearlong stopgap spending bill were the only options, he said, that would be successful in this Congress.

Even some Republicans in the Senate have appeared to balk at the price for a wall. Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, a frequent Republican foil for the president’s agenda, told reporters that she had yet to see a reason for an increase to $5 billion other than “that’s what the president wants.”

The $1.3 billion previously allocated in spending bills for border security — including for pedestrian fencing — has also not been fully spent, lawmakers and aides said.