In the fall of 2010, the year before the revolution that ousted President Hosni Mubarak, I was part of a small team of writers and editors that founded the online news site Ahram Online. It was partly funded by the state and under the umbrella of the government daily Al Ahram. But our editor, Hani Shukrallah, was a liberal and a leftist — a fierce defender of press freedoms and human rights, who encouraged us to push boundaries. After that year’s particularly contentious parliamentary election, during which Mr. Mubarak’s ruling National Democratic Party hired thugs to beat up dissident candidates, we ran an article with the headline “Blow by Blow Account.” Mr. Shukrallah almost immediately got a phone call from the chairman of Al Ahram.

He came out of his office and grudgingly told us that the headline had to go. We changed it to “Minute by Minute Account.” We also chopped off the last paragraph of an article I was writing because it mentioned the president’s younger son, Gamal, who was angling for power in a standoff with the army. This type of censorship, slight in many ways, severe in others, had become a mode of survival; one picked one’s battles.

Still, it was only for a fleeting moment in 2011, in the early days of the uprising — before any clear division between factions had become apparent — that my notebook felt like a liability: I was stopped several times on the street by police officers who were suspicious of my note-taking and interrogated me about my affiliation and intentions.

In all my years of writing, it had always been clear what could and what couldn’t be addressed, even when the difference between those things shifted as the political story changed. There was still a margin for challenging the status quo, to subtly suggest what could not be said — that was mostly a matter of timing and venue. Writing in English, one had more leeway. Sometimes journalists were jailed and people disappeared, but such perils didn’t loom over the everyday or anyone I personally knew.

The present, in this broader historical context, feels novel. In the space of a single day in April, three journalists were detained. Over the whole year, the number is thought to be 38. Others have disappeared. The crackdown now also extends beyond journalists, to anyone with a voice: actresses, comedians, satirists, bloggers, poets, singers, photographers and researchers.