“Hi. I’m Peter Hedges, writer and director of “Ben Is Back.” Ben Burns, played by Lucas Hedges, comes home unexpectedly on Christmas Eve Day. And he’s with his mother Holly, played by Julia Roberts. She’s taken him Christmas shopping so he’ll have appropriate clothes to wear at church that night. They’ve just come from a 12-step meeting. Ben is in recovery from heroin addiction.” “Looks like she’s gonna have you try on the whole store.” “I love what both actors are bringing to this scene. They start in very different places from where they end up. Lucas as Ben has this rich inner life at the beginning of the scene. There’s this dangerous something coursing through him. He has a secret.” “Pockets.” “This is humiliating.” “No, this is love.” “Holly’s oblivious.” “Free to go.” “You didn’t check my shoes.” “Then Holly becomes concerned. And Julia’s switch from happy mother shopping with her son to concerned and panicked mother is — “ “Mom, it was a joke.” “ — so powerful.” “Excuse me — can I get a key to this door, please?” “This scene is a microcosm for the film — that in Holly, at the beginning, you see the hope she has that this is going to be a fun thing. She’s going to get clothes for him. And Ben has a secret. Ben has something he’s not saying. And then she checks him because she has concerns. She’s always worried. But she’s not paying full attention. But she think she is. And she thinks she’s covered all the tracks. And then he reminds her, no, she didn’t check everything. And then watching how she can, on a dime, flip from the happy mom to panicked mom and fierce mom — “ “Where did you get this? I’ve been with you the whole time.” “Excuse me!” “The girl at the meeting.” “And Ben going from cocky and confident to reduced and regressing in age and fearful and apologetic — “ “You think I’m an idiot.” “All right. Can you please just exit the store?” “Yes.” “The range where they both go in the scene, the number of places they go, is emblematic of all the places we go in the film.”