BETTER TIMES

By Sara Batkie

140 pp. University of Nebraska. Paper, $17.95.

Image

At first glance, Batkie’s debut collection appears precariously schematic. Women — lonesome, scarred, wobbling — lead each of the nine stories, which are tidily sorted into three sections: past, present and future. Batkie’s writing is equally disciplined, radiating vibrant, if somewhat vacant, charisma like a practiced holiday guest. But that’s before a trio of late stories achieve an alchemical feat, gold-plating the collection’s themes. Metaphors (for alienation, for insatiate desire) are marvelously transformed into the literal; existential fears (of purpose, of worth) mutate devilishly into the corporeal. In “Cleavage,” a spiritually lost woman suffers physical loss from a mastectomy, only to be tormented by her detached breast, “clawing and clinging like a fidgety child.” The 27-year-old in “Lookaftering,” sensing “a strange uncoiling in her stomach, like a snake letting loose from a trick can,” finds she’s laid a clutch of eggs, a manifestation of her insecurities about love and maternity.

Batkie’s stories shrewdly commingle the hopeless and the hopeful. Her women, demoralized by the absence of fathers and husbands, by stunted careers and aimless children, are locked in self-doubt and self-flagellation, though rarely do they lose faith in “better times,” even when they’ve had slim experience of them. “I did miss being loved,” one character laments, “if you can miss a feeling you have no proof of ever having.”

ITS COLOURS THEY ARE FINE

By Alan Spence

258 pp. Canongate. Paper, $16.

Image

Through an approach perfected by James Joyce and Sherwood Anderson, Spence’s debut collection, first published in 1977 and newly reissued, surveys a narrow locale to disclose widespread truths. With remarkable precision and emotional weight, these stories depict working-class Glasgow: slummy, rowdy, tribal, drunken, despondent, quixotic and irrepressible. Characters, partitioned into “proddies” and “cathlicks,” are nearly always male, from wily schoolboys who prank their neighbors to desperate teenagers who unleash their discontent at the club. Husbands squander their wages on “the last lingering pint and the chip-shop queue”; old men, clutching flimsy welfare checks, “walk around and fill in the day.” Everything and nothing seems to be shifting. A mother dies, and her son gazes out the window: “It was very ordinary. … The sun shone on the greybrick tenement buildings, on the railings and the tumbledown walls and middens, on the dustbins and the spilled ashes.” Only his imagination locates God in the clouds.