That should give the Senate, in its confirmation hearings on Mr. Barr, pause. Having been confirmed before will likely smooth the process for the former attorney general. If the past two years have taught the nation anything, however, it’s that the Trump administration needs an attorney general who welcomes more, not less, transparency and accountability for its actions — a legal officer who can provide assurances that the federal government works for the American public and not for any one person.

To that end, Mr. Barr’s writings and constitutional thinking are illustrative and can guide lawmakers as they vet his nomination and determine how he sees the relationship between the Justice Department and the White House, where he feels the department’s priorities should rest, and how he now regards important moments during his last appointment to lead the agency.

It is heartening that Mr. Barr hasn’t come out swinging against Morrison v. Olson, the Supreme Court decision that upheld the legality of the independent counsel law, since lapsed, that gave way to the Justice Department regulations now governing the work of the special counsel, Robert Mueller. But the Republican Party and conservative thinking on independent counsels and special prosecutors have evolved dramatically since the 1980s and ’90s — Justice Brett Kavanaugh, a maximalist on matters of presidential power, has said that he’d “put the final nail” in the Morrison precedent. A number of Republican senators, in opposing a bill to protect the Mueller investigation, have said that the ruling is no longer good law.

The Senate will surely press Mr. Barr on his views on Mr. Mueller’s work as special counsel, and it would be wise to try to extract a vow from him that he will not risk public confidence in the rule of law by undercutting the investigation. That’s what the Senate Judiciary Committee did in 1973 with Elliot Richardson. During Mr. Richardson’s confirmation hearing for attorney general, he promised not to impede the work of the Watergate special prosecutor, Archibald Cox — only to find himself forced out by President Richard Nixon when he refused an order to fire Mr. Cox.

At the end of President Bush’s term, Mr. Barr had a hand in several misguided pardons related to the Iran-contra scandal, a precedent that has had lasting consequences, including under Mr. Trump. How does he judge those decisions now? Does he regret any of them? Do they inform how he sees the Russia investigation?