There is something of the flatterer, too, in Mr. Manafort. The flatterer does to another what the boaster does to himself. With his lies, he tries to convince the one he flatters that the flattered is better than he is in reality. The flatterer affects this simulation, of course, because he seeks to gain some advantage for himself by pleasing the flattered. For this reason I suspect that Mr. Mueller and his team have heard as much praise from Paul Manafort as Donald Trump must have, back when they were still palling around.

Aristotle’s famous point about virtue and vice is that both are habits that one cultivates. A case like Mr. Manafort’s, by these lights, is more a cause for pity than for anger, and is easy to make sense of: Why would Mr. Manafort continue to dissimulate, even when it clearly runs counter to his own interests? Well, because that’s what he’s always done and always does. He doesn’t exactly intend to mislead; it’s just what comes naturally.

Even if Mr. Manafort is consciously, deliberately lying, he’s foolish to do it and he’s doing a bad job of it. Of course, he may well have a Machiavellian rationale in his head. “Those best at playing the fox have done better than the others,” Machiavelli wrote, speaking of the powerful. “But you have to know how to disguise your slyness, how to pretend one thing and cover up another.”

There are many more such arguments in defense of the necessity of lying for people who want to control the rest of us, and indeed this view agrees with what most of us believe about politicians in particular and power player types in general. Even Machiavelli, however, insisted that one must avoid lying too much, because people will stop believing you, and your lies will no longer work.

Before we get carried away feeling superior to Mr. Manafort, we should admit we are all experts in deception. Politeness and other forms of social expediency prevent us from telling the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth every day. Evolutionary psychologists teach us that lies, self-deception and hypocrisy are essential to ordinary psychological well-being and the survival of the human species. We bluff our way through a lot of life.