One can envision maybe some other small parties — a party organized around gun control, say. But that would probably be the basic lineup on the broad left. Now, what about the right?

Party Five A white ethnonationalist party organized around opposition to immigration, low taxes, a strong military and traditional values. There are parties like this across Europe. And, um, while we’re at it, there’s one like it in the United States.

One question here is whether the more avowedly Christian evangelical portion of this coalition would branch off and form its own party to place more emphasis on social issues. History tends to suggest, though, that the forces of the right hold together for strategic purposes, while the forces of the left do not. On the right, at least in America, they lean toward emphasizing the things they agree on, while on the left, they elevate the disagreements. (It’s a long story.)

Party Six As Party Five would essentially be the Trumpist party, it seems likely that an anti-Trump party of the right would arise, committed to free trade and somewhat more modern attitudes toward, oh, race and the Constitution, for starters. This party would have numerous adherents among conservative pundits. Among actual politicians, however, the record suggests that the numbers would be exceedingly small.

As on the left, there might be a few offshoot parties. There might be a Second Amendment party; there might even be a white supremacist party, which rejected the cleansing euphemisms that most racists have learned to adopt. But these would be minuscule, rarely winning a single seat.

Now, let’s look back over this list. If I’m right, the Democrats would split into four parties, and the Republicans into two, although the second one would be tiny. In other words: The Trump-era Republican Party already is in essence a parliamentary party. This will be especially so in the next Congress, given the retirements of some of the last Republicans who could plausibly be called moderates (Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania) and the defeat of others (Mike Coffman of Colorado).

The Democrats, however, are an unruly bunch. There’s a lot they agree on in terms of broad principles — doing something about climate change, raising wages, expanding health care. But boy do they disagree on how to go about doing them. Some of these fights will inevitably define the 116th Congress. Medicare for All provides a perfect example. There are going to be perhaps 235 Democrats in the new Congress, and just over half that number has co-sponsored the Medicare for All bill. The other near-half is against.