To fight off dry, wintry skin, there’s a simple solution: Moisturize, moisturize and then moisturize some more. But slathering on thick balms all day is not for everyone, especially those who like their makeup to remain in tact.

A cold-weather alternative comes in the form of a new crop of moisturizing creams that are also foundations. They nod to BB creams of the past by pairing hydrating skin-care ingredients with tinted pigments, and do more than just moisturize on the surface. These “treatment” foundations now heal skin with an even lighter, more breathable feel — thanks to new “finishes, opacities and textures,” according to the Toronto-based cosmetic chemist Stephen Alain Ko. The resulting dewy glow lasts — even after washing off your makeup.

The first step is to pick a formula that matches your skin type. For complexions that are both oily and dry, Kosas’s Tinted Face Oil ($42) functions like a hybrid serum — it contains mineral pigments to subtly even out your tone, suspended in a base of moisturizing plant-based oils (meadowfoam, rose-hip seed, raspberry). “Over time,” says the company’s founder, Sheena Yaitanes, “the botanical-oil blend works to balance your skin’s sebum production, hydrate and protect your skin from damage.” Or consider La Prairie’s Skin Caviar Essence-in-Foundation ($195), a new spin on an essence, or lightweight lotion, that is infused with nutrient-rich caviar water to plump skin; you can pat on the tinted powder by itself or add it as the final step of your skin-care regimen.

For super-parched skin, richer formulas deliver higher doses of hydration and coverage but still glide on without feeling heavy. Sisley-Paris’s Sisleÿa Le Teint ($170), for example, contains the same acacia extract found in the brand’s famed Sisleÿa L’Intégral Anti-Age cream; it lifts and smooths creases in a more fluid format. Valmont’s Perfecting Powder Cream ($145), on the other hand, restores lost moisture on a cellular level, morphing from a soft cream into a velvety powder.