But she wasn’t. Eunice Carter did spearhead the strategy that brought down Luciano in 1936, reasoning correctly that prostitution rackets in Harlem, and how they were organized, might be the means of achieving his downfall. Carter was only the second woman in the history of Smith College to receive a bachelor’s and a master’s degree in four years; she graduated from Fordham Law School, started her own practice and joined the New York City special prosecutor’s office run by Thomas E. Dewey. She was the only woman and the only African-American among Dewey’s hires, brought in, according to one historian, for “her command of Harlem pool halls as well as Albany committee rooms.”

Carter likely drew inspiration from her parents, William and Addie Hunton. Brilliant and accomplished, they traveled widely as key early figures in the Y.M.C.A. Eunice and her younger brother grew up, in large part, away from each other and from their parents — she was, according to family lore, “their father’s favorite,” despite years of separation — though they did spend a formative year and a half together in Germany with Addie. (Their journey home to America landed their mother in some trouble when the white woman traveling with them was detained, not realizing what a segregated world awaited them.)

Image

African-American newspapers lauded Eunice’s professional accomplishments as a prosecutor and public figure, noting her success working with Dewey with particular pride, but they were perhaps even more interested in covering her personal life. The Chicago Defender described her wedding to Lisle Carter, a successful dentist, as “a very impressive ceremony” and “the topic of discussion among society folk.” Just a year earlier, she had been a bridesmaid at the most important social event in Harlem, the wedding of Madame C. J. Walker’s granddaughter.

Carter’s upward career climb was especially impressive in that overt racism didn’t thwart her choices. But she could never quite escape its noxious hold on American society, whether it was being paid far less than her white male peers on Dewey’s staff or being passed over, in favor of a rival, for a prestigious judicial appointment. Most personally painful, however, was her brother’s fervent belief in communism, which landed him in prison at the height of McCarthyism and led her to realize that her career had reached not a glass ceiling but a glass cliff.