There’s also a reason that President Barack Obama could be briefed on an event, put on a suit, and go to it, while Michelle Obama had to attend the briefing but also the unofficial briefing after the briefing about clothes: Would it be raining? Would there be grass or cobblestones? Was it windy? (Pencil skirts can’t be displaced by gusts.) Would she be hugging, dancing or doing push-ups?

“Dress shabbily and they remember the dress; dress impeccably and they notice the woman,” Coco Chanel once said. But what, exactly, constitutes impeccable? How are you supposed to achieve it if only a handful of designers deign to make clothes in your size? Where are the clothes that acknowledge the formality and importance of an event and also allow you to do stuff?

For most of my time, these questions are theoretical. As a novelist, I spend my days in clothes that no one but my husband, my kids and my dog ever see.

But this spring, I’ll be on book tour: a dozen events in 10 cities in two weeks. For years, that has meant trying to come up with 14 outfits. If I wore my favorite black dress on Tuesday in Cincinnati, I’d see pictures on social media on Wednesday, and I couldn’t repeat the look in San Diego on Thursday — or else, I reasoned, people would think I had only one dress. I have honed all kinds of systems over the years, from shipping dirty laundry home to traveling with ridiculous amounts of luggage to spending a rare afternoon off rushing to the nearest Nordstrom, all while watching male authors throw on a button-down and call it a day.

What would happen if I treated my dresses the way a man on tour might treat his suits? Could I just pack four outfits and rotate them? Could I find my own uniform?

That’s one way to go. The other is the path paved by Stacey Abrams when she ran for governor of Georgia this year. She did it in jewel tones, in statement necklaces and interesting necklines. She seemed, from where I was following along, to enjoy her clothes, her dresses and her necklaces and her earrings, how she felt and how she moved, and what those looks told the world about her.

“From the moment I enter a room, I am clear about how I intend to be treated and how I intend to engage,” Ms. Abrams wrote in her book “Minority Leader.” “For example, my attire, my hairstyle, even my presentation style, reflect me rather than aping the behavior of others.”

And so, as we’re all girding our loins for this year’s office party, Christmas-cookie exchange, carol sing or latke fry, wriggling into our Spanx, and asking ourselves, If I put on a different necklace, does it still look like the same black dress? a few questions to consider:

If men can wear the same thing over and over, why can’t we? If men have clothes that look good and let them kick a soccer ball, hold a baby or walk on cobblestones in the rain, where are ours? And finally, how would it feel if the only person’s approval you sought when you looked in the mirror was your own?

Jennifer Weiner is the author, most recently, of the memoir “Hungry Heart” and a contributing opinion writer.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.