PetChatz HD (about $300)

Your dog comes when you call him, but are you ready to come when he calls you?

In addition to live video-streaming, motion-detection alerts, two-way audio and a built-in treat dispenser, PetChatz has an LCD screen so your pet can see you. For an additional $99, you can buy a PawCall button, which allows your pet to get in touch with you. A light on the paw-shaped button tells the animal when you’re available, and he or she can then press the button to dispense a treat and send you a text message to initiate a call.

Don’t expect the dog to be able to do this on the first — or even the fifth — try. Rocket and I went through PawCall’s training routine several times, which involved repeatedly taking his paw and touching it to the button, then allowing him to eat a treat. According to the directions, there is “no verbal affirmation required” because “the treat dispense sound” — a little noise the PetChatz device emits whenever it releases a treat — “is the pet’s audible affirmation.”

That may be sufficient for some dogs, but after repeating these steps 10 times and then taking a break and doing it all over again a couple of hours later, Rocket still hadn’t gotten the hang of it. He had eaten a lot of treats, though.

In fact, he seemed more interested in the treats than in my face, which popped up on the PetChatz LCD screen anytime I wanted to talk to him remotely. And I couldn’t see his face very well, either.

The device, which is a fairly bulky 11 inches tall, is affixed to the wall with screws on top of an electrical outlet, so no cords are exposed. (Alternatively, you could pay $60 for a portable mounting stand or get some zip ties and attach it to a dog crate.) But because the camera was positioned at the electrical-outlet level, I had a hard time seeing the dog’s face remotely whenever he came up close to get a treat. Instead, I caught glimpses of random body parts.

Lisa Lavin, PetChatz’s founder, said she had the same issue with her standard poodle, Hattie, and dealt with it by training the dog to lie down before the treat was released, a trick Rocket and I haven’t mastered.