Politicians, the ones absolutely no one has any faith in, are snuffling in the wreckage now, hoping to succeed Mrs. May. It’s a horrible thing to watch calamity treated as opportunity but they thrive on it: The Labour Party, despite what its leaders might tell you, wants a hard Brexit and a general election — in that order. The Conservatives don’t know what they want, but Brexiteers are excited about being in charge. Boris Johnson, a Lothario galloping to seed, apparently has a new haircut, a sign that he’s ready to make yet another play for the top job. It is always about the hair for Boris. Increasingly, I think it is really his brain. Michael Gove, the environment secretary and one of the few Brexiteers left in Mrs. May’s cabinet, is skulking reasonably, hoping to squeeze through the middle. Jacob Rees-Mogg, who attended Margaret Thatcher’s funeral in a top hat, is denying all leadership ambitions, presumably from the center of some giant web built by the ghost of Ayn Rand.

[The Opinion section is now on Instagram. Follow us at @nytopinion.]

Entertainers are wading in, because this is entertainment, or rather, when you treat politics like entertainment, you get this. Americans know that. I increasingly feel we are in Hollywood as the screenwriter William Goldman famously described it: “Nobody knows anything.”

Pamela Anderson — formerly of the constituency of “Baywatch” and who now lives in France and has taken passionate interest in European politics — has strong opinions on a potential Labour-led Brexit: “Lexit is a left exit,” she wrote on Twitter. “Re — what Corbyn would do. By negotiating a Brexit for the people. That protects the ordinary person.” The nation gawped, but there was more. “Never have the words of Shakespeare — ‘now is the winter of our discontent’ — rang more true than now,” she wrote on her website in a post called “Brexit and I (also starring Shakespeare and Churchill),” which she illustrated with a photograph of herself hiding behind a plant. “I have been following the situation very closely,” she wrote, “and I fully support the position of Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour party leader (leader of the opposition). Ok, I admit it, I have a little political crush on Jeremy Corbyn.”

But back in what is, for now, still the fifth largest economy in the world, the actor Andy Serkis — Gollum from “Lord of the Rings” in the constituency of Middle Earth — has made a video, with Mrs. May as Gollum and the deal as the One Ring. It ends with a plea for a People’s Vote, which will presumably be played by Ian McKellen, with all the gravitas he gave his King Lear: “O! Let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven; keep me in temper; I would not be mad!” Too late, too late.

No one here knows what will happen next — an election, another referendum, a new deal, a departure from the European Union with no deal at all. The last 18 months have felt like political hell; now, I fear we will look back at them as the time when things were sane.