So it comes as a relief, at first, when the play completely changes course about a quarter of the way through its intermissionless two hours. The six characters now reappear — spoiler! — as contemporary interracial couples in sex therapy.

[What’s new onstage and off: Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter]

It seems that the MacGregor plantation has become a resort and conference center; the couples are there as part of a weeklong program run by the social scientists Teá (Chalia La Tour) and Patricia (Irene Sofia Lucio), late of Smith and Yale. Their program focuses primarily on helping the black participants, who are no longer able to receive pleasure from their white — or whiter — partners. The scenes we saw at the beginning of the play were their therapeutic fantasies, spun out in role-play.

Mr. Harris does not squander the satirical opportunities this setup offers. Words like “positionality,” “minoritarian” and “heteropatriarchal” get quite a workout as Ms. La Tour and Ms. Lucio mine characters whose intelligence has been co-opted by cant. And though some of this material could use pruning, Mr. O’Hara proves the perfect collaborator in staging it, playing the comedy so bright and dense that you don’t have the bandwidth to grow bored. Nor do you notice, until you’re too far along, that comedy is not all it is.

Because the thing about this therapy — perhaps like the play — is that it works not despite but because of its absurdity. Teá and Patricia’s “processing” of the black participants’ fantasies gives them access to insight that their social conditioning had previously obscured.

None of that insight is welcome news for their partners. If Dustin, Alana and especially Jim — a Brit who finds the whole concept insane and traumatizing — are unable to see what their whiteness has to do with it, we in the audience see it all too clearly. Gary, Phillip and Kaneisha exist “squarely in the blind spot of their nonblack partner,” a phrase that is no less damning for being clinical.

Though all of the black participants have psychological cofactors, including obsessive-compulsive disorders, it misses the point to say the deck has been stacked. Mr. Harris isn’t making a universal statement about individuals in interracial partnerships; he’s aiming at the interracial partnership of America as a whole. By the time the play, which has a classical form much like a sonata, reaches a final scene involving just one of the couples, its sharp narrowing in feels like a vast broadening out. In plantation America, which in Mr. Harris’s cosmology is both antebellum and post-, can white people learn to love black people — not just their music and their plays — as actual black people, on black people’s terms?