Representative Matt Gaetz: “Your employees can get together and chat in groups, right? Google groups?” “Yes, they can.” “One of those groups is the civil rights group, right?” “We have many employee resource groups on which they can participate in conversations, yes.” “Have you ever looked into the conversation into the ‘Resist’ group?” “Congressman, no.” “Is it — does that strike — is that a surprise to you that there is a ‘Resist’ group?” “I’m not aware of whether such a group exists or not.” “If there was a ‘Resist’ group would that be the type of thing that you would want to look into?” “We have clear policies around how our products are built and —” “No, but if there’s a ‘Resist,’ you know that the ‘Resist’ movement is a movement built to resist the agenda of President Trump? If there’s a ‘Resist’ group within your company where groups of employees, not one, are getting together within that group to engage in discourse on company time with company infrastructure, does that strike you as the type of thing you would want to investigate?” “Congressman I’m not aware of any such group. None like that has been brought to my attention and, you know, happy to follow up, and understand the concern better.” “If you want positive search results, do positive things. If you don’t want negative search results, don’t do negative things. To some of my colleagues across the aisle, if you’re getting bad press articles and bad search results, don’t blame Google or Facebook or Twitter, consider blaming yourself.” “Right now if you Google the word ‘idiot’ under images, a picture of Donald Trump comes up. I just did that. How would that happen? How does search work so that that would occur?” “We provide search, today, for any time you type in a keyword. We, as Google, we have crawl. We have gone out and crawled and stored copies of billions of their pages in our index. And we take the keyword and match it against web pages and rank them based on over 200 signals.” “Does Google track my movement? Does Google, through this phone, know that I have moved here and moved over to the left? It’s either yes or no.” “Not by default. There may be a Google service, which you have opted in to use. And if —” “So Google knows that I am moving over there. It’s not a trick question. You know, you make $100 million a year you ought to be able to answer that question.” “Does Google now know the full extent to which its online platforms were exploited by Russian actors in the election two years ago?” “We undertook a very thorough investigation, and in 2016 we now know that there were two main ad accounts linked to Russia, which you know, advertised on Google for about $4,700 in advertising. We also found other limited —” “Total of $4,700?” “That’s right.”