Nor do the other reasons you provide — that it wouldn’t be worthwhile for him to collect on the contract; that you would prefer to do something else with the money; that the money is less significant to him than it is to you; that the connection represented by a monthly check stops both of you from moving on with your lives — support your view that the contract is void. The moral meaning of an agreement cannot be decided by one party in retrospect.

You think he’s being a jerk about the money. And perhaps you’re right to. The fallacy is concluding that if an assertion of a claim is blameworthy, it’s no longer binding. In a play on the term “supererogatory” — which refers to acts that go above and beyond what duty requires — the philosopher Julia Driver coined the term “suberogatory,” for acts that are deplorable but not a breach of obligation. That’s what you’re describing. If you want to break the connection with your ex, take out a loan for what you still owe and pay him off now. This will give you two things that the current arrangement doesn’t: escape from an emotionally freighted deal and a chance to build your credit.

Not long ago, a couple of months before I completed my undergraduate degree, I confessed romantic feelings to a female friend, with whom I had been extremely close since freshman year. At one point, in a boneheaded move straight out of a romantic comedy, I attempted to kiss her. I didn’t dwell on it because we continued to talk for another half-hour. She later came to my house, and after we talked for a while, said that she thought we should take some time apart. I was sure our friendship would recover.

I asked her to grab a beer with me a few times over our remaining college months, but she said she was not yet ready. One day, seemingly out of the blue, she told me she could not see me anymore because she no longer felt comfortable around me. I didn’t understand. We had been best friends for nearly four years; to me, this was merely a small speed bump. I begged for clarification, but my lack of understanding was upsetting to her. Ultimately, I asked her if what she really wanted was for me to delete her phone number and never contact her again. She said yes. Hurt, I did what she asked.

When the #MeToo movement was in full swing, I thought about how this friend once told me, tearfully, about being sexually assaulted as a teenager by a guy she knew and trusted. And she now carried that assault with her everywhere she went. I suddenly understood. As much as I know I wasn’t — and would never be — that guy, to her I was, or at least I could have been. I broke her trust and our bond by trying to kiss her when she did not want to be kissed.

I’ve felt awful about this for nearly a year. I want to email her and profusely apologize. How can she ever get close to a man without being afraid he’ll want more than she does, and try to take it?