Many of the holiday movies we consider classics or cult favorites today did not seem destined for such glory when we first reviewed them. Some we panned. Others were flops. Others just weren’t particularly holiday-focused.

We dug up 10 of those reviews from our archives, which we’ve rounded up here, along with info on where to stream them. Below is how the critic A. O. Scott reviewed “Love Actually” for The New York Times on Nov. 7, 2003:

“Love Actually,” which opens today nationwide, is an indigestible Christmas pudding from the British whimsy factory responsible for such reasonably palatable confections as “Four Weddings and a Funeral,” “Notting Hill” and “Bridget Jones’s Diary.” A romantic comedy swollen to the length of an Oscar-trawling epic — nearly two and a quarter hours of cheekiness, diffidence and high-tone smirking — it is more like a record label’s greatest-hits compilation or a “very special” sitcom clip-reel show than an actual movie.

[Read about 9 more classic and cult Christmas movies as The Times first reviewed them.]

The air is thick with bad pop songs, which those plucky, ironical Britons seem to love in spite of their badness. A sparkling British-American cast of newly minted and long familiar stars chirp, swoon, pine, quip and shed the odd tear. Presiding over it all is the new prime minister, a twinkly bachelor with a tonsorial resemblance to Tony Blair, who is played by none other than Hugh Grant. As he did in the far superior “About a Boy,” Mr. Grant makes a climactic onstage appearance at a school talent show. He also sings “Good King Wenceslas” and disco-dances around 10 Downing Street in his shirt sleeves.

In his opening voice-over, Mr. Grant establishes a new standard for bad taste masquerading as its opposite when he introduces this fluffy farrago, written and directed by Richard Curtis, with a reference to the World Trade Center attacks. The phone calls made from the towers, he suggests, show that however perilous the state of the world, “love is all around.” Further support for this thesis is gleaned from the arrival gate at Heathrow, where people tend to hug and kiss each other a lot.