By delaying Tuesday’s vote by Parliament, Mrs. May bought some time. But not much, and at high cost. She evidently hopes she can squeeze some concessions out of a European Union summit meeting scheduled for Thursday and Friday that could placate some members of Parliament on the most contentious issue, the open border between Ireland and the British region of Northern Ireland. Both sides are committed to keeping the border open. But since that would mean keeping part of Britain in the union’s single market, the British and union negotiators agreed that as a “backstop,” Britain would remain bound by some rules of the European Union if another solution was not found by the end of a transition period in December 2020. To some supporters of Brexit this is anathema. But as an exasperated member of the European Union Parliament, Guy Verhofstadt, tweeted, “Just keep in mind that we will never let the Irish down. This delay will further aggravate the uncertainty for people & businesses.”

Reopening the talks could also open the door to more European Union demands, like France’s desire for future access to British fishing waters or Spain’s claims over Gibraltar. And political sharks at home, from Labour’s Jeremy Corbyn to the hard-core Conservative Brexiteers ranged behind Boris Johnson, have been quick to sense Mrs. May’s weakness.

And so at the 11th hour, it remains unclear what’s next, a fact that sent the pound tumbling again. A Conservative leadership struggle, or new elections, or even a new referendum are all considered. Yet however it plays out, the British government, whether under Mrs. May, Mr. Corbyn, Mr. Johnson or anyone else, will still be faced with finding a way either to put in place a messy divorce that would infuriate a major portion of the nation, or abandoning the process, staying in the European Union and infuriating a different portion of the population. The only other option, an exit with no deal, would be a disaster.

On one question, at least, the European Court of Justice provided clarity on Monday when it ruled that Britain could, if it chose, rip up its notification to the European Union that it wanted to leave, and simply stay.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.