“I think the American people recognize that we must keep government open, that a shutdown is not worth anything, and that you should not have a Trump shutdown. You have the White House —” “A what? Did you say ‘Trump’ —” “A Trump shutdown. You have the White House, you have the Senate, you have the House of Representatives, you have the votes, you should pass it, right now —” “No we don’t have the votes, Nancy, because in the Senate, we need 60 votes —” “No, no, but in the House we could bring it up right now, today.” “Again, excuse me, but I can’t get it passed in the House if it’s not going to pass in the Senate. I don’t want to waste time.” “Well, the fact is you can get it started that way, and —” “The House we could get passed very easily —” “O.K., then do it —” “And we do, but the problem is the Senate because we need 10 Democrats to vote and they won’t vote —” “That’s not the point, Mr. President. The point is, is that there are equities to be weighed and we’re here to have a conversation in a prayerful way, so I don’t think we should have a debate in front of the press on this.” “We have solutions that will pass the House and Senate, right now, and will not shut down the government, and that’s what we’re urging you to do. Not threaten to shut down the government —” “You don’t want to shut down the government, Chuck —” “let me just finish — because you can’t get your way —” “The last time you shut it down you got killed —” “Let me say something, Mr. President: You just say, ‘My way or we’ll shut down the government.’ We have a proposal that Democrats and Republicans will support — to do a C.R. that will not shut down the government — we urge you to take it.” “And if it’s not good border security —” “It is very good border security —” “And if it’s not a good border security, I won’t take it.” “We’re coming in, in good faith to negotiate with you about how we can keep the government open. The —” “We’re going to keep it open if we have border security. If we don’t have border security, Chuck —” “I’m with you —” “We’re not going to keep it —” “I’m with you. We are going to have border security —” “And it’s the same work — no bragging about what has been done.” “By us.” “We want to do the same thing we did last year, this year. That’s our proposal. If it’s good then, it’s good now, and it won’t shut down the government.” “Chuck, we can build up a much bigger section —” “Let’s debate, let’s debate it in private.” “O.K.” “Yeah, let’s debate it in private.”