Demanding higher price supports and calling unsuccessfully for a nationwide farm strike, hundreds of farmers invaded the nation’s capital on tractors, camper vans and pickup trucks in 1979. They broke into the Department of Agriculture building and occupied Mr. Bergland’s office, and wandered through the Capitol and confronted Mr. Bergland at a committee hearing.

“There’s no quick fix or free lunch in this business,” he told them. “It’s not the role of the federal government to guarantee all farmers a profit year after year. We have the responsibility to keep agriculture productive and strong, but the nation does not have the responsibility of assuming all the risks of farming.”

“Bob Bergland is a farmer and he understands this business,” said Earl Hayes, a Kansas farmer and leader of a wheat growers’ association. “But he’s something of a hired man and he’s had to temper his dealing with the budget boys. He’s tried to be broad-minded, and this makes him look a little wishy-washy to some farmers.”

As secretary of agriculture, Mr. Bergland directed a department of 83,000 employees whose work affected virtually every taxpayer and consumer in America. Its 9,000 inspectors guarded the cleanliness and quality of meats. It lent $30 million a year to farmers, issued crop reports that influenced markets; supervised subsidies, controlled the labeling of packaged foods and directed $9.3 billion in programs that provided food stamps to 15 million people and lunches at 95,000 schools.

Among his signature achievements, Mr. Bergland helped steer the Farm Act of 1977 through Congress. It created a grain reserve that became a primary weapon to flatten boom-and-bust cycles. Under the plan, the government paid farmers to store grain on their own farms, holding it during fat years when prices were low, and marketing it in lean years when supplies were low and prices rose.

Mr. Bergland also created an assistant secretary of agriculture to protect consumer interests, and named Carol Tucker Foreman, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America, to fill it. She was a tough adversary of food processors, meatpackers and, indirectly, of farmers, demanding true-weight labeling on food packages, ordering junk food off school lunches, tightening rules on preservatives and launching studies on carcinogens and dietary effects on health.

“It was my idea and my appointment,” Mr. Bergland said. “The Agriculture Department is going to be all the people’s department, not just the farmers.”