John’s love for Jamie cuts a Romantic figure — the depth of his attachment is what makes him human. But that also has informed the bulk of what we know about his character so far. We know he honors promises, but Jamie got most of those promises. And when John shows up to pay his respects at Fraser’s Ridge, there is more emphasis on unrequited love than on friendship. (John isn’t subtle.) No surprise that Claire eventually confronts him: “I can’t for the life of me understand your motivation for coming here.”

Of course, the real point of his visit, at least from a storytelling perspective, is to trap Claire and John Grey in the cabin as she nurses him through measles and they hash out their unfinished business. They each know the other’s soft spot — Claire has Jamie’s romantic love, and John had 20 years with Jamie that Claire can never have. It’s great to see Caitriona Balfe give Claire so much old pain to work from, and David Berry gets to add some depth to John Grey beyond his pining.

There’s not as much depth to this fight as there could be, though, and some volleys — like John’s “I could have had him” — need a lot more examination than they get. But the stakes for each character are real. John’s love for Jamie is a safe way to avoid facing other problems, such as guilt over not loving Isobel. Claire is not entirely secure in her relationship with Jamie — and after everything, maybe she never can be. Their weary détente is about all they can hope for. The question is whether they’ll ever have a relationship defined by more than resenting each other over a willfully oblivious Jamie.

We certainly don’t find out this episode. Jamie spends most of it making sure young William (a very game Oliver Finnegan) avoids measles, giving him a Dad of the Year field trip. Sam Heughan does good work running Jamie’s suffering just underneath his reassurances and lessons. It’s interesting enough that the clumsy setup for the big reveal feels doubly awkward. We didn’t need another instance of Fraser bravery impressing the Cherokee so much that it gets them out of any consequences.

And in giving up the family secret, the show has given up a lot of potential angst for Jamie at a time when — oddly — it feels as if he could use some. We can assume, however, that “Outlander” won’t hesitate to find some new angst for its heroes to gnaw on.