It’s obvious that Americans live in social bubbles — living and talking in circles divided by economics, race, ideology, geography, taste and so on. The problem arises as soon as you try to differentiate those that constitute real “bubbles” — which is to say, self-reinforcing spheres of blindness or irrationality — from those that might just as easily be called “cultures” or “communities,” groups of people who share experiences and convictions. Such groupings will certainly have drawbacks; our shared preconceptions often limit us. But to use the word “bubble” as a stand-alone pejorative is to focus on the ignorance inherent in a given worldview, rather than the insights; it’s to examine ideological opponents and conclude that the only reason they could possibly believe what they do is because they haven’t examined alternatives.

It’s nice to imagine that we can broaden someone’s understanding of the world by illuminating their blind spots. The problem is that our helpful corrections are likely to be totally wrong. A well-meaning diagnosis of conservative bubbles like LeTourneau’s — “when everyone you know is a Republican,” she writes, “you can’t imagine anyone who isn’t” — might run up against complicated research results: say, one that indicates conservatives are actually better at modeling liberal beliefs than the other way around.

The difficulty of getting it right might explain the overwhelming vindication people clearly feel when someone else’s ideological bubble really has been pricked. Less than two days after President Trump’s electoral victory, The New York Post published a column by Michael Goodwin that was positively triumphant about it: “The cluelessness in media and political circles about the Trump voter surge,” he wrote, “confirms that the ruling class is cosseted deeply in its bubbles and isolated from the concerns of other Americans.” So long as we’re not among a bubble’s inhabitants, its popping flatters our own delusion: that we’re among the few right-thinking people who accurately measure value, who accurately perceive reality, who see far more clearly than the sheeplike, tulip-loving half-wits around us.

What might be more helpful, when talk of a “bubble” crops up, is to think of yourself, rather than others — to be vigilant about the possibility that the most meaningful bubbles are the ones you’re not aware of, rather than the ones you’re eager to spot. They are, after all, incredibly pleasant and convincing when you’re on the inside. The value they create is not an illusion: There is much to be gained from being in mental harmony with those around you, let alone owning something people are paying absurd prices for. It’s dispiriting, perhaps, to think our various blinkers might not be easy to identify, but knowing this offers a sort of peace — the peace of spending less time wondering why everyone else is so hopelessly blinkered. If you’re skeptical of your own ability to see everything clearly, you’ll be less surprised when the actions of others refuse to blow up in their faces — or, perhaps, when you hear your own world emit an unexpected pop.