Many of the holiday movies we consider classics or cult favorites today did not seem destined for such glory when we first reviewed them. Some we panned. Others were flops. Others just weren’t particularly holiday-focused.

We dug up 10 of those reviews from our archives, which we’ve rounded up here, along with info on where to stream them. Below is how the critic A.O. Scott reviewed “Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang” for The New York Times on Oct. 21, 2005:

The opening titles for Shane Black’s “Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang” — based not on Pauline Kael’s collection of essays, but rather, at least in part, on a novel by Brett Halliday — evoke a bygone age of high pop style. The visuals are a loving tribute to the great graphic designer Saul Bass, while the jazzy sounds of John Ottman’s score summon up the easy heat of Henry Mancini in his prime. The movie itself, however, evokes a rather different era. I could say that its syncopated editing, its switchback chronology, its fourth-wall-breaking voice-over narration and its hectic mixture of humor and violence represent a fresh and exciting twist on sturdy noir conventions. In fact, I would say just that — if it were 1995 and I were the kind of person whose mind had just been blown by the cinematic possibilities revealed in “Pulp Fiction.”

[Read about 9 more classic and cult Christmas movies as The Times first reviewed them.]

Now, don’t get me wrong. I like “Pulp Fiction” just fine, and I don’t think “Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang” is an altogether bad movie. It’s just a movie with no particular reason for existing, a flashy, trifling throwaway whose surface cleverness masks a self-infatuated credulity. Mr. Black, a longtime screenwriter (most famously of “Lethal Weapon”) and first-time director, shows a lot of slick, dexterous self-confidence. As this shaggy-dog crime story hums along, you can almost convince yourself that something interesting is going on. And, in a way, something is, in that the film, as empty stylistic exercises sometimes do, offers its cast the chance to do some inspired, fast-paced riffing.

Robert Downey Jr. plays Harry Lockhart, a small-time New York thief who winds up, via a deliciously improbable circumstance, in Los Angeles. Preparing for a screen test, he falls under the tutelage of Perry van Shrike, played by Val Kilmer, a private detective widely known as Gay Perry because of his sexual preference (which is apparently something of a novelty in Southern California). The two of them engage in a lot of pixilated, hard-boiled banter, hurling one-liners, non sequiturs and riddles at each other with impressive speed and agility. Though both are hyperarticulate, Perry is clearly smarter. “Do you know what you’ll find in the dictionary next to the word idiot?” he asks Harry. “My picture?” “No. The definition of the word idiot, which is what you are.”