The novel unfolds over 48 hours in a sultry and violent June. There are riots, anti-Muslim marches, attacks on immigrant-owned businesses. City walls are plastered with racist graffiti. The strains of Brexit are in the air. Reading Gunaratne’s depiction of the tight confines of the council estates, it is impossible not to think of the burning of Grenfell Tower.

Image Guy Gunaratne Credit... Jai Stokes

“In Our Mad and Furious City” was published to acclaim in Britain, longlisted for the Man Booker Prize and praised by that prize’s committee for its authenticity, its report from the “inner city.”

There’s plenty of London slang, to be sure, but it’s all garnish; the real sounds and deeper rhythms of the novel aren’t snatched from the streets but from literature. This book was incubated in a library. There is the explicit homage to Samuel Selvon, the author of “The Lonely Londoners,” an influential 1956 novel about Caribbean immigrants, and a heavy debt to Zadie Smith. You can feel gritty sediments of Irvine Welsh in the use of slang; Saul Bellow, in Gunaratne’s fondness for directly addressing the reader. Unmistakable, too, is “Mrs. Dalloway,” that great snapshot of “life; London; this moment of June,” in its presentiment of doom. From the first page, it is clear that one of these characters will be sacrificed.

But Gunaratne is a more passionate reader than he is writer. His novel is weirdly somnolent given how portentously it primes us for danger, for the burning of mosques and blood in the streets. On my first reading, I was not sure how this happened; had I missed something? Was I reading too quickly, too callously?

The problem is that novels — like cities — thrive on strange, entropic energies. Excessive planning saps something vital to their survival. And Gunaratne is a very composed, very careful writer. Although interested in the clashing voices of London, of homegrown Grime music, the book itself is as tidy and contrived as a suburb. The characters speak their subtexts and announce their motivations. The rowdiness of the city is conveyed in summary, in blunt statements — “Violence made this city”; “we were London’s scowling youth” — and only rarely staged or subverted. Nor does the carousel of alternating viewpoints serve any real purpose. We see the same scene from different perspectives, but all reinforcing a single story.