Carley, designer: I’m heavily into dressing in vintage finds, there are so many amazing unique pieces to be found and the reuse of clothes is important to me as a stop to consuming. I’m hugely inspired by my granny’s house, as a child I remember visiting and being mesmerized by her collection of colorful and eclectic things she had collected on her many travels. We’re on a journey to find a new home. We like it here and we keep returning, there are so many like-minded people. The Byron Bay area feels like home for us, there is such a lovely attitude here, you’re free to wear what you like and be who you want to be.

Kamil, fashion photographer: I grew up in Poland and I used to dress in gray and black. Poland has that Eastern European vibe, you don’t want to stand out, and you want to be invisible. There are a lot of judgments in the small towns and dressing like this can bring unwanted attention and lead to trouble. I first met Carley in London. The way she dressed seemed more like me so I started to dress that way too. It felt liberating. She makes a lot of my clothes and has a real talent for styling. I like to dress for comfort and color. This shirt I wear is a Christian Dior and is from a second hand shop.

Feather: The reason I call myself Feather, I was going on a trip to Africa on my own because my husband had passed away about 6 months prior. I never collected feathers at that stage, I had nothing to do with feathers, I got out of the shower the morning I was leaving and there was a white feather on the bathroom floor. I picked it up and started collecting feathers. I was writing poetry at the time so I called myself lone feather. I’ve been collecting feathers ever since and have also incorporated feathers into my dress style. It’s a hot climate and the sea also inspires me, it’s very influential in what I wear. I wear a lot of white, blues, turquoises and always cowrie shells. I’ve lived by the beach for about 40 years. You have the freedom to go overboard, nobody takes to much notice if you do so. Don’t let age define you, wear anything you want to wear, there’s no fashion police around here.

Takahiro Sato