But in the United States, only about 3 percent of families have it. According to data from the North American Pet Health Insurance Association, 2.1 million pets were insured in the United States and Canada in 2017, up 17 percent from the previous year.

The policy I had for Mason, which my friend suggested, was from a company called Trupanion. It covered 90 percent of his treatments, not including examinations and prescriptions. The company’s chief veterinary officer, Dr. Steve Weinrauch, was a practicing vet in England before moving to the United States with his wife, a Scottish veterinarian, and he said he noticed a marked difference in the way people approached veterinary care in Europe versus the United States. In Britain, most of the pets he saw had medical insurance and their owners readily agreed to the treatments he suggested.

In the United States, he found that pet owners who were just as caring would sometimes delay treatment or try conservative rather than proactive treatments because of cost, and then would be upset when their pet’s condition did not improve or greatly deteriorated.

It may seem extravagant to purchase pet insurance at a time when many humans can’t afford health insurance in the United States, and I didn’t openly admit to many people that I’d done so. But I was surprised to find that it covered a wide range of care, including acupuncture, fluid therapy, chemotherapy, blood work, CT scans, M.R.I.s and physical therapy — not all of which Mason needed.

“The pet is almost the same as the child to a lot of people,” said Dr. Diane Roberts, a San Francisco Bay Area veterinarian and medical director of SAGE Centers for Veterinary Specialty and Emergency Care, where Mason received treatment.

Conversations around end-of-life care, palliative care and hospice treatment have a growing place in veterinary care. For years, euthanasia after a terminal diagnosis was somewhat common, but today, according to Dr. Roberts, pet owners “keep their pets comfortable for longer. They are more willing to give meds and care than they were 20 years ago.”

According to the website of the International Association for Animal Hospice and Palliative Care, founded in 2009, “Hospice exists in the belief that patients in the last phases of life deserve this care so that they might live as fully and comfortably as possible.” For pets, hospice care mainly includes pain management and comfort care that focuses on maintaining quality of life. Hospice and palliative care can prolong a pet’s life with the option of euthanasia if it is determined to be the humane course of action.