The loss of her homeland is never far from Noura’s mind as she and Tareq cook a traditional Mouslawi Christmas feast that features, among other delicacies, a dish the Americanized Alex calls “face.” (Yes, we get to see it.) The presence of their oldest friend, Rafa’a, a Muslim émigré who grew up with Noura, only adds to her fretting: How easily a cosmopolitan society comes apart when neighbors revert to tribes.

[What’s new onstage and off: Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter]

Dinner party plays, even those with exotic foods, usually require a stranger to stir up the action, and here “Noura” comes up with a doozy. She is Maryam, a younger Iraqi refugee, now a physics student at Stanford. She is also, notably, an orphan, whose flight from Iraq and resettlement in the United States Noura has helped to sponsor. When she arrives bearing gifts she also bears a big surprise. Let’s just say the name Maryam is no accident either.

The Christmas dinner itself, like many in real life, is a confusing affair. On one hand, it offers a corrective portrait of refugees as actual people instead of political boogeymen. This is a loving, productive family, adjusting well to snow and subways (both the transportation and the sandwich shop). Whether called Tareq or Tim, Noura’s husband is no Torvald; he has a modern disposition and seems comfortable catering to his wife. Alex, despite his jones for Minecraft, is not so Americanized as to sass his parents too harshly or renounce the pleasures of cuddling.

But in the manner of more conventional dramas, the dinner and its aftermath strip away what the rest of the play has built up, and for reasons that seem more expedient than characterological. Noura’s radiance becomes erratically pyrotechnic, setting off dozens of incendiary ideas but letting many of them fizzle. Ms. Settle’s production — she also directed “Nine Parts of Desire” — is likewise long on mood, short on clarity.

Yet many moments — as when Noura dresses Alex (Liam Campora) in her father’s kaffiyeh to play one of the Magi in their church’s Christmas pageant — are perfectly clear and stirringly powerful. Ms. Settle’s work with the cast is excellent. The triangular relationship of Noura, Tareq (Nabil Elouahabi), and Rafa’a (Matthew David) is deftly handled. As Maryam, Dahlia Azama counters Noura’s hungry radiance with a different kind: the radiance of self-sufficiency. It’s a form of withholding that she wants nothing from anyone.

But with surprises piling up in the final scenes, plot lines nurtured so carefully earlier are abandoned without comment — leaving me, at least, feeling a bit underfed.

I’m not sure Ms. Raffo would mind; she has said, of “Nine Parts of Desire,” that she wants “American audiences to walk out a little confused.” After all, how easily should they grasp “the psyche of people who have lived under Saddam for 30 years with American support, then had a war with Iran, resulting in 1.5 million deaths, followed by 13 years of sanctions and two wars under American firepower?”

It’s good that the best parts of “Noura” aren’t, in fact, easy. But a central performance as deep as Ms. Raffo’s can eventually become inaccessible. A door that appeared immeasurably open has somehow slammed shut.