There is this notion like “Maybe she refused to learn it,” or “She was lazy,” or “She didn’t care,” but no. It was some other song, and then it was switched the day before. That night, I had to go home and memorize Ariana Grande’s “Greedy.” I didn’t have the lyrics sheet with me, so I had to learn it by ear, and write down the lyrics as I went. I stayed up until like 3:30, and I had to be up at 6. I tried to learn the song. Before I went to sleep, I knew the song. By the time I woke up, I didn’t know the song.

People don’t acknowledge the fact that we are busy working the entire time. We are not just sitting there learning songs in our free time, because there is no free time. And so by the time it came time to perform, I was in such a state of shock and I freaked out. That is the real tea!

It was very difficult for me to process all that at the time. But once I calmed down, I was able to realize that all of the drama and all of my trauma aside, this is an iconic moment in reality TV. People are going to remember me for that — and good. It’s a problem when they don’t remember you, baby.

You made it a point during your season to showcase your Mexican heritage. Should we expect the same during “All Stars”?

I can never deny my culture. Even if I give you a simple black dress with some simple hair, I am imagining María Félix walking down a long hallway in my mind. On my season, I made it a plot to reference things that maybe people didn’t know. I was name dropping people and things that I found so beautiful, like Mariachi Plaza in Los Angeles and María Félix and the bridal look with my mom.

My upbringing, coming from a Latin family and being first generation — that is a really big part of everything. I just got to work with the Latina goddess, my childhood icon, Thalía, who I grew up watching on “Marimar” and “María Mercedes” and “María la del Barrio” and “Rosalinda.” I worked with Gloria Trevi. These are people I grew up idolizing. It is such a blessing, because what I am aiming for with my art is to be part of Latin excellence.