“It’s a disparity that is troubling because of its impact on health,” he said.

It makes economic sense for retailers, investors and entrepreneurs to have a vested interest in this issue, said Mr. Robb of Stonewall Robb Advisors, an investment and advising firm for food businesses.

“Food is the most robust sector in the economy,” he said. “People have to eat.”

As an example of a successful retail move, he cited Whole Foods’ move into Midtown Detroit in 2013, adding that “Wall Street laughed” at the time.

Retailers cannot just drop into communities, he said. Instead, they should work with local food policy groups to develop relationships so that they can better understand a market’s needs.

“Real work happens through partnerships,” he said.

Another key to success is embracing the role that a new generation of innovators can play in enhancing access and curbing waste, Mr. Robb said. He cited two examples: FoodMaven, a company that sells discounted surplus food and imperfect produce to restaurants and commercial kitchens, and Apeel Sciences, a company that produces a naturally derived coating that can extend the shelf life of fresh food.

Something that extends the life of produce can change a retailer’s mind about carrying it, he said. “The reason they don’t want to do it is because it goes bad and they have to throw it out, and that costs money.”

Food waste, access and safety are affected by a wide variety of public policies from the regulation of pesticides and standardization of food labeling to recognition of the role that immigration laws play, Ms. Suh said.

For example, she said, regulating pesticides and promoting more natural and sustainable farming practices supports the health of the farmworker, the communities that surround the farms and the retail customers themselves.

“Systemwide approaches are needed to meet the demands and needs of the whole world,” said Ms. Suh, who, before joining the N.R.D.C. in 2016, was assistant secretary for policy, management and budget at the Interior Department.