Did you read the classics in school?

No, no. I was an economics major. I was a great student — 4.0 G.P.A., valedictorian, all that stuff. I learned to study and play to the test, play to the grade, get to the next step. Now I’m in a position where I can actually devour the content I always wanted to. I remember reading Ben Franklin’s autobiography and being so delighted by it. It gave me this real delight to pursue a path of more knowledge.

Where’d you grow up?

I grew up in the projects in Queens. Fortunately, I had a mother who worked three jobs, did everything she could to ensure that I was set up for success and had the education that I needed. I got a full-ride scholarship to the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn. And from there, I got to see how the other half lived. It completely changed my life. I got to see what success could look like. I got to see what wealth was. And it completely changed my worldview.

How so?

I would walk down the halls and see last names like Ford, go to some classes and realize they’re Rockefellers. These are names that were in my imagination. It taught me the importance of name and what that can mean, not only for you but your progeny. When I started at Hotchkiss, I didn’t know what a verb was. So I spent all of my time in the library studying. I spent all of my time thinking about what I wanted to be when I grew up.

What motivated you during this time?

Wealth creation. I mean, I know what the opposite looks like. And I don’t wish that on anybody. I think everyone deserves the opportunity to succeed, and when I saw how the other half lived, it motivated me. When I was younger I realized there are three ways to get rich. The first was to be an actor or an athlete, which didn’t work out for me too well. The second way was to work on Wall Street. And the third way is entrepreneurship, which is what I’m pursuing now.

What was your first job after college?

I worked for Lehman Brothers each summer during college. Then I graduated, went to work on Wall Street, and realized I hated it. I was a trader. Your goal as a trader is to make money with other people’s money to, at the end of the year, make money for yourself. And there was really nothing validating there for me.

I felt that the world was bigger, and that there were other things that needed solving. I have a lot of friends who continued to pursue that path. Thank goodness I left after two years, because they start paying you enough money to keep you there. And then your opportunity cost gets so high that you don’t want to leave, and you get miserable. I saw this happen over and over and over again. I didn’t want to be the victim of that.

What did you make of Silicon Valley when you arrived?

I was 24 when I came to Stanford. The other 24-year-olds here were not only making millions of dollars but fundamentally changing the world. Why did I not have any idea this place existed? There was this world, this innovation economy, that by design I was unable to participate in because I didn’t know about it.