A lot of your films are about these types of relationships between men that you don’t often see onscreen: tender relationships between straight men who really love and care about each other and can express that, and that seems to be where a lot of your comedy comes from. Vulnerability can be very funny. The older I get, I think that is what I’m here for. When I was growing up in the 1970s, every man was macho, other than Paul Lynde, bless his heart. I remember seeing Gene Wilder as Willy Wonka and understanding that kind of intelligent, sensitive man. That was a really life-defining moment. Now that I’ve been acting for 30 years, I’ve started to think about my impact. I would like people to say that I expressed empathy and showed sensitivity and showed a different way to be a man.

In thinking about your impact: Is there anything you haven’t done yet that you desperately want to do? There are walks of life that I’m really interested in. The priesthood is one of them, because I do feel like, in some ways, being an actor, especially in the theater, is living a monastic life. You have to suspend your own needs and desires in order to service this vocation: I know what it means to be running your life in a way so that this higher power is serviced.

You’ve starred in a number of musicals. Do you think that participating in that kind of art gives you a sort of power, because you can bring people together and give them an actual communal experience? I think that’s why church hasn’t gone out of fashion. I grew up Catholic, and I went to church every week until I was about 18 and I started to realize the theater is my church. Anything that was guilt-inducing never really landed with me, but what I liked was “Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.” I liked sitting there with this group of people, regardless of what we say the dogma of this religion is or regardless of what the rituals are — the fact is, we’ve all come here for a good reason, because we want things to be better for ourselves.