Early in the book, Hayes charts his aesthetic family, the genealogy of his poetics. The question of influence becomes one of connection more than resistance, collaboration more than anxiety. Hayes reminds us that the word “influence” is at root fluid: “from medieval Latin influentia (‘inflow’), from Old French influence (‘a flow of water’).” This is a genealogy that emphasizes the paternal side. Women poets do appear, among them Wanda Coleman, Mary Karr, Sonia Sanchez, Audre Lorde and Gwendolyn Brooks. But mostly this is an “inflow” of poetic fathers. A reader’s conversation with “To Float” will deepen the more he or she knows about the main figures Hayes claims as poet-fathers: Knight, Langston Hughes, Yusef Komunyakaa, Christopher Gilbert. But even if you’ve never heard of these writers, Hayes’s readings function as apt introductions. It’s a gift to encounter writers through the precisely calibrated curiosity of a wide-open searcher like this.

Hayes begs off the assignment of the biographer. This is not a book “about” Etheridge Knight, or anyone else. “I felt I had two choices,” Hayes writes: “a rigorously researched biography or a rigorously imagined biography.” He opted for the latter. “I sidestepped research for guesswork; I was reading between the lines of photographs, interviews, letters, maps, scraps of details.” For part of “To Float,” the alibi of “biography” helps Hayes avoid autobiography. But he’s as canny as ever. Consider: Early in the book, Eunice Knight-Bowens, Etheridge’s sister, tells Hayes that Etheridge was the third of seven children. Hayes shares that he “did not ask Eunice why he, and not one of his older brothers, Charles and Floydell, was named after his father.” Over a hundred pages later, Hayes confides: “My younger brother, James L. Hayes II, has my father’s name because James L. Hayes is, biologically speaking, not my father.” Instead of “guesswork,” lyrical rigor floats in the space between Knight and Hayes. He concludes: “My biography about Knight would be about intimacy, heartache.” O.K. But whose?

Ultimately, “To Float” charts an intimate “inflow” of selves and methods. Hayes accepts that the “future Etheridge Knight biographer will simultaneously write an autobiography,” then follows with a chapter, “My Genes,” in which he steps far from the spotlight of the famed poet’s stage and travels to Columbia, S.C., to investigate his paternal ancestry. Hayes meets Earthell “Butch” Tyler Jr., the father he didn’t know about until he was 18, along with a series of younger brothers and at least two of their mothers, all for the first time.

We come along as Hayes kicks it, almost, with the kinfolk (to steal a line from Knight), and we listen over his shoulder to tales of a quasi-heroic grandfather, Earthell Tyler Sr., who made a military career away from his wife even as she added children to the family while her husband was away. We learn that the senior Tyler was killed in Vietnam in 1965, awarded the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star. Hayes — like the successful college professor and poet he is — tries to decide if he’s listening to stories of shameful abandonment or heroic valor, deciding again and again that “the truth was more layered” than available terms allow. Seeking more details that might — but probably won’t — pierce the layers in his newfound family’s legacy, Hayes embraces the through line that Butch Tyler offers about their legacy, one of openness: “He used to kiss me,” Tyler tells Hayes. “You come from a long line of loving men.”

The legacy Hayes’s search unearths is practical as well as ideal, the challenge of men who refused to make their “long line of loving” a synonym for control and ownership, of soldiers who had enough of warfare. Hayes asks was his grandfather funny, or shy, or serious? He’s told: “He was serious. But on the other hand, he was like me. He wasn’t the kind of guy to kick the door in and shoot you” for messing with his woman. Challenged and moved, and maybe changed, by what he’s found, Hayes reports: “Thinking about it on the plane home, I had to put my hand over my eyes.” Through such deeply felt and finely wrought eddies of narrative drift, “To Float in the Space Between” confronts the reader with many such moments of angular reflection and renewed recognition.

“Vital. Vital,” is how the poet Gwendolyn Brooks began her lyrical preface to Etheridge Knight’s first pamphlet of poems, “Poems From Prison.” Vital meaning living, and meaning necessary. With a similar double-edged vitality, “To Float in the Space Between” drifts into a growing chorus of autobiographical writings — including such recent books as Yrsa Daley-Ward’s “The Terrible,” Darnell Moore’s “No Ashes in the Fire” and Kiese Laymon’s “Heavy” — that put practical, stress-tested flesh on the closing sentence of Brooks’s preface: “And there is blackness, inclusive, possessed and given; freed and terrible and beautiful.”