Baldwin was among the literary models, Rich writes, who “helped me to realize that what had seemed simply ‘the way things are’ could actually be a social construct, advantageous to some people and detrimental to others, and that these constructs could be criticized and changed.” Change spurred via criticism (in the literary sense of that word) becomes the object of the essays, which by the 1970s are coming fast and furious, at least as much a part of Rich’s literary output as her poems.

“This world is white no longer, and it will never be white again,” Baldwin wrote, announcing the change his criticism would enact. Similarly, Rich proclaims, with all the urgency of revelation, “No woman is really an insider in the institutions fathered by masculine consciousness,” issuing a warning to her fellow outsiders — we can’t win if we play their game. It is men who wrote the “book of myths / in which / our names do not appear.” These famous closing lines from “Diving Into the Wreck” are Rich’s poetic call for a new set of myths; by the ’70s, she was avidly writing it.

The notion of the outsider is central to Rich’s thinking, a key that opens subjects ranging from literature to feminism to politics, which, in both essays and poems, are all effortlessly — and necessarily — interwoven. Rich reframes classic literature through a feminist lens. Of “Jane Eyre,” she writes, “The wind that blows through this novel is the wind of sexual equality.” In the utterly thrilling “Vesuvius at Home,” she gives us a new Emily Dickinson, “a great psychologist” who saw through her patriarchal society and claimed the solitude and independence she needed to make her art.

Image

And she looks back at Elizabeth Bishop, already a senior figure in Rich’s poetic youth, a closeted lesbian who represented a tradition — “diffuse, elusive, often cryptic” — that Rich was working to escape. Finally, however, Rich comes to find Bishop’s poems “remarkably honest and courageous” precisely because she was an outsider and “critically and consciously trying to explore marginality, power and powerlessness, often in poetry of great beauty and sensuousness.” This strikes me as perhaps the first utterance of what has become the standard reading of Bishop.

Now I need to confess something. Until recently, I mostly ignored Rich. I read “Diving Into the Wreck” in college and have always had a few of her books in my poetry library, but, I’m embarrassed to admit, I didn’t credit how important she was. I told myself I didn’t like political poetry, that I was already a feminist, so I didn’t need to read the essays. I was afraid, I now see, to admit what she worked so fiercely to articulate: that I, as a white man, have always thoughtlessly partaken of all sorts of privilege, that I am an insider in ways I had the luxury of ignoring — in fact, it was specifically the truth of Rich’s writing that my privilege insulated me from.

I don’t mean to claim some instant, magic woke-ness upon reading these books. But Rich offers me a powerful and necessary reminder of the continuous self-reflection required to fight ignorance — one’s own and others’. We need to reread these books, especially now.