Headliner

Small Batch

The neighborhood, with Bobby Flay’s commendable fast-food Burger Palace and the steakhouse chain Capital Grille just steps away, is not bad, as suburban malls go. But the arrival of the chef and restaurateur Tom Colicchio at the Roosevelt Field shopping center in Nassau County definitely ups the ante. His new restaurant, a case study in attention to detail from design to dessert, would not be out of place in an urban setting. Bentel & Bentel, the architects based in nearby Locust Valley that designed Mr. Colicchio’s Craft along with Gramercy Tavern and Le Bernardin, have given this new restaurant, on a premium corner in the center, a sophisticated farmhouse look. There’s a big barroom with lights hung from vintage orchard ladders, and a bigger dining room with country-style spindle-back chairs facing the open kitchen. Asked why he’s opening a restaurant there, Mr. Colicchio said that people everywhere want good food. “I’m testing this market,” he said. “I think the future is in opening a restaurant that’s not typical in an area like this.” The menu , created by Mr. Colicchio, is in the hands of Thomas Chang, the chef de cuisine. It is rustic American, strongly farm-to-table (farms are about an hour away), with dishes like Honeycrisp apples with delicata squash and country ham; mussels in white wine cream with fennel and turmeric; grilled squid with chickpeas, celery and Aleppo pepper; grilled swordfish with white beans and oven-roasted tomatoes; and smoked short ribs with polenta. Claudia Fleming, an owner of North Fork Table who was the pastry chef at Gramercy Tavern, is overseeing the desserts. Mr. Colicchio expects to have local wines, beers and spirits on the drinks list.

Roosevelt Field, 630 Old Country Road, Garden City, N.Y., 516-548-8162, smallbatchrestaurant.com.

Opening

Odo

Hiroki Odo, who was the executive chef at Kajitsu, in Murray Hill, is opening his own kaiseki restaurant hidden, speakeasy-style, behind Hall, the all-day cafe and bar he opened in November . There are only 14 seats at the counter, where the chef serves a nine-course kaiseki that amounts to a tour of various Japanese techniques.

17 West 20th Street (Fifth Avenue), no phone, odo.nyc.

Maison Vivienne New York

In an effort to keep its summer clientele happy, the owners of this Mediterranean restaurant in Southampton, N.Y., has opened a Manhattan branch. The menu, by the executive chef, Victor Pastuizaca, and his son , Johnny Pastuizaca, the sous-chef, features octopus pressed and served with arugula, fennel and blood orange; warm goat cheese wrapped in phyllo; duck breast with a honey lavender glaze; bouillabaisse; and a list of pastas and risottos. There is also a father-and-son team devising cocktails: the renowned Albert Trummer and his son Jakob Trummer.

116 East 60th Street, 646-484-5356, maisonvivi.com.

Unagi

On the heels of the November opening of Hachibei, a restaurant specializing in freshwater eels imported from Japan, New York will now have a second freshwater eel restaurant, this one importing its eels, live, from Japan. The small restaurant is being fitted with a 1,000-gallon tank where the eels will be kept. But no, you do not have to catch your own as at the new Zauo restaurant in Chelsea, where patrons can go fishing; Unagi’s chefs do the work, then steam them with a coating of sugar and soy sauce, and grill them over charcoal ($29 for a half eel, $49 for whole). Grilled eel livers will be another specialty. This restaurant is the work of Bros Seafood, owned by Samuel Pierce, who has a passion for Japanese food, and his brother , Barrett Pierce. (Saturday)

60 Kenmare Street (Mott Street), 212-257-2335, unaginyc.com.