Q: You recently said that firefighters were living climate change every day. How does climate change make a fire-prone state even more vulnerable?

A: Obviously the mean temperature is increasing over time. A subtle one-degree rise in temperature can really have impacts on what vegetation grows and at what elevations. The kind of vegetation that grows can increase flammability.

We are really seeing the historic kinds of conditions in Southern California vegetation moving north in latitude and moving up in elevation. For example, the central and southern Sierras are really being impacted by tree mortality with epidemic levels of insect attack, which has killed over 129 million trees. What will come in behind these trees is more volatile, flammable vegetation.

Q: You’ve also said California needs to reconsider allowing people to live in wildland, restricting some areas from inhabitants. How would that work and how does the state reconcile its extreme housing shortage with a prohibition on growth in more rural areas?

A: I am not proposing banning building in the urban interface. However, we have to learn more from these last disasters and to continue to re-evaluate and look at areas that are difficult if not impossible to defend — areas in canyons where the winds are intensified, where the brush and vegetation creates erratic fire behaviors. We need to make sure that we have more than one way in and out of a community and that those roads are wide enough and they will support the population. Having a dead-end community that is isolated is obviously difficult.

Q: Someone mentioned to me building fire bunkers inside towns.

A: There are solutions that we need to be thinking outside the box for. Our first choice is always to evacuate people out of harm’s way. But we know these fires are burning so fast. We have to have other options as well. Could you preplan hardened structures so that if you couldn’t evacuate this is where you could go? These are all the kinds of things we need to be looking at.