Mr. Castro and Mr. O’Rourke are friends — Mr. Castro attended Mr. O’Rourke’s election-night rally in El Paso in November. For years, Mr. Castro has been one of the few nationally recognized Democratic political stars in Texas, but his political clout and share of the spotlight have been overshadowed in some ways by Mr. O’Rourke, whose underdog Senate campaign attracted celebrity followers, tens of millions of dollars in donations and national media attention.

[Read our review of Mr. Castro’s memoir, “An Unlikely Journey: Waking Up From My American Dream.”]

In an interview with The Times at Mr. O’Rourke’s election-night rally last month, Mr. Castro called Mr. O’Rourke a talented candidate. “Beto ran an inspirational campaign that brought a lot of new people into the fold,” Mr. Castro said. “They’re going to stay in the fold and vote again. Usually it’s the other way around. You get folks interested in a presidential year but then they may not participate the next time because it’s a midterm. Fortunately, it’s the other way around this time.”

On Wednesday, Mr. O’Rourke said he was happy to hear of Mr. Castro’s potential candidacy. “I’ve gotten to know him over the last few years and just think he’s a great person and will make a great candidate, and if he wins, he will make a great president,” Mr. O’Rourke told reporters in Washington.

Mr. Castro, whose memoir, “An Unlikely Journey: Waking Up from My American Dream,” was released in October, said on Wednesday in an interview with The Times that he was not worried about other Democrats who may have more starpower.

“In my whole life, I don’t think I’ve ever started out as the front-runner,” said Mr. Castro, who lost his first campaign for mayor of San Antonio back in 2005. “I grew up in a neighborhood where nobody growing up there was the front-runner at anything. So I’m not going to concern myself with who people think of as the front-runner and who they don’t.”

Mr. Castro is so far the only Hispanic contender among the crowded list of major potential Democratic challengers, a distinction he acknowledged and embraced on Wednesday.

“Of course today, because of where Latinos in the country find themselves, there’s special significance to having a Latino candidate on that stage,” Mr. Castro said. “It’s the scapegoating of the Latino community, the terrible policies at the border, the complete failure to respond to Hurricane Maria. These are tough times for the Latino community under this administration. The challenge is to give voice to that but also to represent everybody, and I intend to do both of those things.”