Before reading the article:

How well have you been keeping up with the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election? What do you know about what has happened, who is involved and President Trump’s relationship to the case?

In his inquiry, the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has pursued a basic set of questions:

How did Russia, on the orders of President Vladimir V. Putin, wage a campaign to illegally influence the 2016 presidential race? Did any Trump associates conspire with Russia’s interference? Has President Trump tried to obstruct the inquiry? Mr. Mueller was also authorized to investigate any potential crimes he came across in conducting the investigation.

Here are his latest findings:

Federal prosecutors said on Dec. 7 that President Trump directed illegal payments to ward off a potential sex scandal that threatened his chances of winning the White House in 2016, putting the weight of the Justice Department behind accusations previously made by his former lawyer. The lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, had said that as the election neared, Mr. Trump directed payments to two women who claimed they had affairs with Mr. Trump. But in a new memo arguing for a prison term for Mr. Cohen, prosecutors in Manhattan said he “acted in coordination and at the direction of” an unnamed individual, clearly referring to Mr. Trump. In another filing, prosecutors for the special counsel investigating Russia’s 2016 election interference said an unnamed Russian offered Mr. Cohen “government level” synergy between Russia and Mr. Trump’s campaign in November 2015. That was months earlier than other approaches detailed in indictments secured by prosecutors. And in a separate case on Friday, the special counsel accused Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, of lying about his contacts with an individual they accuse of having ties to Russian intelligence, and about his interactions with Trump administration officials after he was indicted on criminal charges. Together, the filings laid bare the most direct evidence to date linking Mr. Trump to potentially criminal conduct, and added to an already substantial case that Russia was seeking to sway the 2016 election in his favor.

• Of what are prosecutors accusing Mr. Trump?

• How are these accusations related to the central questions of the Mueller investigation?

Now, read the article, “Prosecutors Effectively Accuse Trump of Defrauding Voters. What Does It Mean?” Then answer the following questions:

1. What do these latest revelations suggest about President Trump and his campaign advisers?

2. Why might a possible campaign finance violation pose a challenge to Mr. Trump’s legal team?

3. How likely is it that Mr. Trump will be indicted — that is, formally charged with a serious crime? Why?