EVOLUTION

By Eileen Myles

222 pp. Grove Press. $25.

Evolution results from the tension between disruption and order, a recognition that change is part of the being and momentum of the self. In Eileen Myles’s newest book of poetry, “Evolution,” we encounter an arrival, a voice always becoming, unpinnable and queer. Myles’s new poems are transformations, and perhaps a culmination of the poet’s previous inquiries into love, gender, poetry, America and its politics.

Evolution, from the Latin evolutio, means an unfolding or opening out of a curve, emergence or release from an envelope or enclosing structure, or a transformation. The questions Myles asks — Are we capable of evolution at this point in our American lives? Can we continue to open out of this place and release ourselves from the enclosing structures used to maintain this empire? If so, what might that mean of our future? — are queer questions, questions wholly invested in what is not yet possible.

Part of what makes queer and trans art dangerous is its willingness to wager its own future and expend the labor required to write oneself into the considerations of a nation. In “Evolution,” that energy builds and burns, in the quick pace of the lines, in unexpected shifts and leaps from interior to exterior, from sensuality to observation. The shifting is constructed to let an audience believe it is receiving everything of the speaker’s life, that each poem reveals a secret and private truth. In the poem “Sweetheart,” Myles acknowledges the artifice of this truth as well as a division of the private and the public-private:

I’m creating

a pattern

someone who

doesn’t love

me will

say you

say too too

much.

Movements like this, the flickering between what is thought to be known and what remains unknowable, are embodiments of queerness, and a facet of their power is that they cannot be dictated by the state. America cannot surveil imagination or curiosity.

Curiosity is not just queer; it is necessarily profane. Certainly the poems in “Evolution” are profane — as in outside the temple, outside the place of institutional knowledge and teaching. Queer and trans poetry always exists outside the center. The profane has the power to disrupt; not because a word or a body isn’t sacred, but because profanity acknowledges other knowledges and possibilities held in languages and bodies that are unwelcome in the temple. It allows other places to be made sacred, as in the book’s opening essay, when Myles has a “thought to make things and make things well. It’s such a beautiful thought. I won’t dwell on my own sexuality too much but I do want to say I love the idea of making something nice with another human being, perhaps me, not a baby but something nice. A special place perhaps.”