The idea that the Republican Party under President Trump doesn’t indulge in identity politics is laughable. In addition to fanning racial grievance, Mr. Trump has aggressively pitched himself as a defender of Traditional Manhood against feminists and #MeToo advocates, reflexively defending accused predators and lamenting how scary it is to be a young man these days.

Mr. Emmer’s comments, in fact, struck some Republican women as Exhibit A of how a shameful number of men in their party still don’t grasp the gravity of the situation. “Totally tone deaf,” lamented one strategist. “Antagonistic when he didn’t need to be.”

According to Andrea Bozek, the spokeswoman for Winning For Women, a super PAC aimed at getting more Republican women elected , “Someone has to be pushing the panic button — we’re at code red.” If women “don’t see themselves” and “don’t feel like they have a voice” in the party, she warned, “those numbers are going to dwindle” even further.

There’s no reason the party can’t take a stand on this, agreed Jean Card, a communications strategist active in Republican politics. “How about: Men and women are different and do approach tasks differently and do approach life differently? That’s a Republican value.”

Ms. Stefanik finds the whole debate over identity politics “outdated.”

“I’m from a different generation,” she said. “I really leaned into talking about the fact that I am a young woman.” At campaign events, she would boast that she “wasn’t what most people picture when they picture a traditional Republican candidate.”

She also aimed to “talk about every issue as a women’s issue.” As an example, she cited medical-device manufacturing, a field that employs a large number of women in her district but doesn’t exactly qualify as a traditional women’s issue. “Some colleagues would say that’s identity politics,” she said. “I think it’s a smarter, more personalized way of communicating.”

Of course, the Republican refrain that “all issues are women’s issues” is often used to shift discussion away from policy areas that have been helping Democrats expand the parties’ gender gap — areas like as health care, gun safety, reproductive rights and this president’s irrepressible sexism. Liz Cheney, the House Republicans’ newly elected chairwoman , hit this theme soon after the midterms, denouncing the Democrats’ approach to wooing women as “offensive” and “paternalistic.”