In “The Best Albums of 2018,” Times critics give their top picks for 2018. Here, for instance, is the music critic Jon Pareles’s No. 1 choice:

1. Janelle Monáe, ‘Dirty Computer’ The interaction of human and machine has been a major theme of Janelle Monáe’s entire recording career. Her latest concept album, “Dirty Computer,” deploys funky riffs (often with Prince echoes), snappy beats and crisp pop-song forms to promise that love, polymorphous sensuality and an inclusive American spirit can conquer all, even an impending apocalypse. Meanwhile, Monáe’s full-length accompanying video — billed as an “emotion picture” — is far more dystopian.

And here are the top two picks of the Times critic-at-large Wesley Morris, who wrote “The Best Performances of 2018”:

Beyoncé’s Company, Coachella Last April, the universe genuflected before Beyoncé after she wrapped a major music festival around her baby toe. Some of us are still on our knees. But as good as she was, the dancers and marching band and majorettes she brought with her — part black-college halftime extravaganza, part Fela Kuti marathon; workers to her queen — might have been even better, their virtuosity reinforcing hers. At this point Beyoncé is a guaranteed intoxicant, but the bodies and musicianship surrounding her left me drunk in love, too. Lucas Hedges The most original young actor in America is also the busiest. In the last year or so, he was the best thing in “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” one of the highlights of “Lady Bird” and “Mid90s,” the centerpiece of two issue movies — about the opioid crisis (“Ben Is Back”) and about gay-conversion therapy (“Boy Erased”) — and Kenneth Lonergan’s dementia tragedy, “The Waverly Gallery,” now on Broadway. Hedges works in a unclassifiable style. He can be deceptively gentle or misguidedly thuggish and delivers dialogue with an upside-down transparency, but with no bogus intensity or bravado. Scarily enough, there’s an eternity for him to get somehow stronger. The most original young actor in America is just 21.

Need more inspiration? The New York Times has published its critics’ lists of the best movies, television shows, actors, albums, songs, classical music, jazz, dance, theater, performances, art, poetry and books.

Students: Scan the many sources of inspiration we’ve included above, or find your own outside The Times, whether Vulture’s The Top Best Video Games of 2018, Space.com’s Best Space Books and Sci-Fi for the 2018 Holiday Season or Sports Illustrated’s 2018 Sportsperson of the Year.

Then tell us...

— If you were making your own 2018 Top 10 list, what would be on it?

— What were the best things about 2018 for you? What type of Top 10 Lists or Best of 2018 Lists would you make? What world, local or national events did you enjoy? What breakthroughs in science or technology excited you? What would be your headline for the year?

— What were the worst things about 2018? What happened in the news that would make the list? What annoyed you about pop culture, or sports?

— What happened in your own life this year that was wonderful? In what personal ways will you be sad to see 2018 go? What aspects of your personal, family or school life will you be happy to leave behind?

Related: Happy Holidays: Seasonal Suggestions for What to Read, Watch, Write About, Create and Debate, which contains links to many year-end “best of” lists, as well as many other ways to look back at the year that was, and forward to the year that will be.