TRICKSTER FEMINISM

By Anne Waldman

Illustrated. 141 pp. Penguin Poets. Paper, $20.

In folklore, the trickster figure is a cunning rulebreaker, positioned disruptively outside conventional mores. With her new book’s title, Anne Waldman, whose writing, performing, teaching and activist career defies political and poetic convention, appears to promise feminist mischief and playfulness. And there are such moments: when, for instance, the names of woman poets are embedded as homonyms (“Mean alloy” for Mina Loy, “Burn a debt” for Bernadette — Mayer, presumably). But these operate more as a homage to fun than as fun itself. The pervading mood in “Trickster Feminism” is of a piece with our national mood: gloom-filled, sorrowing, yet occasionally threaded with hope.

“And the day would be proud of itself going on as if it hadn’t already collapsed, had not been destroyed, riven, all the people mad and metabolically downcast,” begins the prose sequence “denouement,” which responds to Donald Trump’s election. “People were coming out to the street. In the way they wanted to see where the big guy lived and boasted so as to mock the event. … How ugly would it go?” Later, Waldman tells of a woman “mumbling mantras … as she circles the tower. … Om Man Be Gone … Om Con Con Be Gone,” and laments “a lack of power to move ethical clocks forward.”

Waldman is associated with 20th-century experimental writers who have energetically defined themselves against what she calls “the official verse literati culture academic mainstream.” A longtime left-wing political activist, she has written dozens of works of poetry and given hundreds of performances. She co-founded, with Allen Ginsberg and Diane di Prima, the Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics at Naropa University. A devotee of Tibetan Buddhism, she seems to have centered her life and work on the idea that poetry and language are a “tribal responsibility,” summoning a powerful kind of political magic.

Image

[ See the Book Review’s selection of 100 Notable Books and 10 Best Books of 2018. ]

Over the decades, Waldman has written many long poems. Her urge is epic. In sequences of prose and verse, she gives voice to vatic, rhythmic, litany-shaped utterances, with an intensity that can mute her playfulness (though in performance her ability to play gets more play). Waldman combines political, mythical, literary, artistic and historic references in poems that tend to blend and blur rather than yield imagistic clarity. The shortest poems in “Trickster Feminism” are one or two pages long; most are much longer. The metaphor that comes to mind is of a river, its great volume washing by. My undergraduate students would love to talk about Waldman’s “flow.”