MAD, BAD, DANGEROUS TO KNOW: The Fathers of Wilde, Yeats and Joyce, by Colm Toibin. (Scribner, $26.) Toibin’s graceful group biography of the men who sired three of Ireland’s greatest writers is, among other things, a study in contrasts. The sons created lasting literary monuments while the eccentric fathers, in Toibin’s words, “created chaos.” I reviewed this one myself, and especially admired how “Toibin presents an evocative, engaging portrait not only of ‘three prodigal fathers,’ as he calls them, but of Dublin in the 19th and early 20th centuries.”

WHY RELIGION? A Personal Story, by Elaine Pagels. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $27.99.) Pagels, a renowned religion scholar, explores in this memoir the profound grief she experienced when she lost her young son and her husband in quick succession. She searches for the ways religion can console and the limits of its ability to take away the pain. “We can feel how difficult it has been for this reserved scholar of early Christianity to enter the black hole of her feelings,” Mark Epstein writes in his review. “This is a minimalist work of great majesty, akin to a shimmering Agnes Martin painting, whose stripped-down aesthetic allows light to pour forth from her canvas.”

INTERIOR STATES: Essays, by Meghan O’Gieblyn. (Anchor, paper, $16.) There may be no better guide to fundamentalist Christian culture than O’Gieblyn, who was raised in the faith and then — painfully, reluctantly — abandoned it. “What she captures most vividly here is Christianity’s indomitable reach,” writes Emily Eakin, an editor at the Book Review. “Thrillingly alive to big questions of meaning and belief, her essays are testaments to exquisite attentiveness, each painstakingly stitched and emitting a pleasing, old-fashioned whiff of starch.”

THOSE WHO KNEW, by Idra Novey. (Viking, $26.) Set in an unnamed island nation and featuring a corrupt politician with a history of sexual assault, Novey’s taut dystopian thriller bristles with dark energy, evoking a world beset by problems unnervingly like our own. “This is not so much a Whodunit as a When Will They Speak Up?” our reviewer, Helene Stapinsky, writes. “The novel’s political intrigue and corruption, and the sadness that accompanies the sense of helplessness in the face of a great evil, is prescient.”

JOHN MARSHALL: The Man Who Made the Supreme Court, by Richard Brookhiser. (Basic, $30.) Brookhiser, who has made a specialty of re-examining the founders, here takes on one of the most important of them, the man who in effect created the Supreme Court. Brookhiser’s account is compact and balanced, and in the current political climate, could hardly be timelier. Reviewing it, Jeffrey Rosen calls the book a “fine new biography” that “makes clear the polarization of the age of Marshall matched (or even surpassed) our current battles over the composition of the Supreme Court. … By persuading the justices to set aside their partisan differences and to speak in one voice, Marshall established the court as an emblem of bipartisan legitimacy in a polarized time.”