The United Kingdom is currently dealing with its own political crisis: Brexit. But the topic can be hard for us Yanks to wrap our heads around. So we reached out to our colleague Sarah Lyall to help us understand what’s going on.

Lisa: Uh, so is Britain O.K.? There’s yelling, grabbing of the ceremonial mace and threats to oust Theresa May. What in the world is going on over there?

Sarah: It depends what you mean by “O.K.” Britain has not exploded, burst into flames or slid into the sea as part of a giant mudslide, but the Brexit process has been a chaotic mess, a combination of farce and tragedy underpinned by fear and ignorance. Nobody likes the Prime Minister’s carefully negotiated plan for how the country might extricate itself from the European Union, but there is no Plan B — and without one in place by the March deadline, Britain would end up departing under far worse terms than anyone can really conceive of.

So Mrs. May survived to fight another war — but it’s a doozy. The E.U. says there’s not much room for compromise, and there’s not enough support for the E.U. plan in the U.K. What happens now? Could Brexit just get canceled?

Those things are all true. Mrs. May is still prime minister, but has promised to step down before the next election. (If I were her, I personally would not be able to get out of there fast enough.) She is trying to see what concessions she might extract from E.U. leaders, who are in no mood to grant any concessions at all. Pro-Brexit forces would like a tougher deal; anti-Brexit forces would prefer that the whole thing just went away.

It is conceivable that, as former Prime Minister John Major (a Tory, like Mrs. May and her enemies from the right, FWIW) argued earlier this week, Britain could simply “stop the clock” on Brexit while it figures out what to do next, but no one knows how that would really work. Could there be a second referendum in which Britons could decide that, on second thought, they would prefer not to have Brexit? Maybe, but no one knows how that would really work, either.