There was a time when even we as Canadians would be nervous about that, going ha-ha, almost apologetic in advance. And now it’s like, “I dare you to not love this — and by the way, it’s all-Canadian.” Twenty years ago American producers were like: “Oh, man, I’ve seen these guys. I don’t want to have to hire here in Vancouver.” But now I think people are amazed by the scope.

I’ve read that you and your wife were so wary of a Trump presidency that you considered moving to Canada full-time. And yet you didn’t. Are you less nervous now?

No, I don’t feel less nervous. I’m a very hopeful person. I believe in a one-term president, but I don’t know. We are dual citizens. We’ve been living in this country for a long time, and we’ve contributed a lot, and so what happens in 2020 matters. But we can still at the same time say we’re proud Canadians.

Has our political environment fostered a nostalgic yearning?

Something about the election just said, “Where are smart clowns? Where do we get some relief?” Because you can binge “The Handmaid’s Tale,” but it ain’t funny. I think what brought people back to “Will & Grace” was, “Once a week I get my ice cream.”

“Will & Grace” certainly has its political moments. But Max Mutchnick, one of its creators, said that the show is never going to motivated by what’s on the cover of The Times. How, then, do you keep things current?

The news changes so much that trying to do jokes about that seems almost futile now. However, we just did a #MeToo episode for Grace, which turned out to be an incredibly moving thing, and I’m doing one in which I’m trying to give my blood to someone that needs my type, and when he hears I’m gay he doesn’t want it. So it’s looking at the fact that for all the changes in the world and all the Will and Graces, it doesn’t matter. The stigma still exists. And Will has a couple of great scenes about how this fight is tiring. How long do we have to educate people? How long do we have to stand up for ourselves before we don’t have to convince somebody to bake our freakin’ cake?