Denise Scott Brown

Through Dec. 22. Carriage Trade, 277 Grand Street, Manhattan; 718-483-0815, carriagetrade.org.

Denise Scott Brown’s photographs of Las Vegas during its early, explosive years of growth were meant to aid rethinking about architecture: how grandiose signage and bright neon lights eclipsed design, particularly in the age of the automobile. These ideas were explained — and also embraced — in “Learning From Las Vegas” (1972), which Ms. Scott Brown wrote with her husband and design partner, Robert Venturi, and their architectural colleague Steven Izenour, and are evident in Ms. Scott Brown’s “Photographs, 1956-1966,” at Carriage Trade.

In a booklet accompanying the show, however, Ms. Scott Brown notes that these pictures weren’t intended as artworks. “I’m not a photographer,” she writes. “I shoot for architecture — if there’s art here, it’s a byproduct.” Nonetheless, the images, with their signs advertising hot dogs, casinos and cheap hotels, are more than data and research: They resemble art we’re familiar with — from Pop and Photorealist paintings of banal American landscapes — and hold up in a gallery. I mages of the desert butting up against industrial America recall the color photographs of Stephen Shore and William Eggleston, as well as films by John Schlesinger, Michelangelo Antonioni and the experimental-film artist James Benning.

One of the best parts of the show is a 1968 film that was shot from inside a car being driven around Las Vegas. Here, the study of the new city and its infrastructure comes alive, particularly since the primary argument of “Learning From Las Vegas” is that Americans were experiencing architecture — and, by extension, landscape and 20th-century life itself — from a moving car. Las Vegas is the realization of a fantasy, a surrealistic funscape that encourages you to depart from the ordinary, and the windshield here functions like a movie screen. The film may have been intended as “data,” as Ms. Scott Brown claims, but it’s also a rich and satisfying documentary artwork.

MARTHA SCHWENDENER