It’s up to the parents

Although I don’t play video games my 9 year old brother does and he loves to play games like Fortnite and Roblox. Sometime when I’m watching him play video games I hear or see obscene language and slurs. Even on games that I thought were kid friendly like Roblox. This worried me because I thought that my brother would start to pick up the obscene language spoken by players in the video games. After talking to my dad about it he thought it was best for us to always have someone in the room whenever he’s playing video games to make sure he doesn’t participate in the obscene language. In my opinion, I believe that video games are safe for children as long as you make sure you’re aware of anything that may be going on in the game. There are also plenty of parental controls available on most gaming devices to protect your child from hearing anything obscene.

— Sophia Jourdan, Orlando, Fla.

All games are rated and children should be playing games that are E, E 10+, and maybe even T games because they are designed for kids. Plus, most streaming services and games have the ability to mute chats and block players who are using the platform for obscenities. I think that if a child were to play a game with an active chat, it should be up to the parents to let them use the chat or not. Parents should also be held responsible for the types of games their children are playing. If they don’t want their child to be exposed to those words and actions, then they should not condone the use of the game or streaming service. In conclusion, I strongly believe that it is up to the parent’s discretion what kind of games and streaming services their children are exposed to, and it is their responsibility to know what could be said in the chat and what actions could be done in the game.

— Kaitlyn Brown, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.

I do play video games but only on weekends. My favorites are the Halo, Fallout and Call of duty series. Based on my experience I think online video games are safe for children depending on the game and how old the child is. I do not think people need to make gaming communities less toxic because a company has already tried and failed. Also because if you are younger than a thirteen you should probably not be playing the mature games like Call Of Duty because the servers will most likely be more toxic. I think that the child’s parents should make sure that they are not exposed to a game that is not too inappropriate for the child so then they will also most likely not be exposed to toxic online chats either.

— Tyler, BHBL High School

Game creators can do more

The toxicity that occurs in video games is unacceptable. From racial slurs to homophobic insults there are many different ways that people ruin the gaming experience for others. Children are constantly restricted from playing certain games due to the words and actions of others. Video game creators must take more action in eliminating toxic behavior. Things can be taken out of hand very often. I believe cursing should not be restricted as you should be able to express your feelings however racial slurs, homophobic insults etc.. should be controlled video game creators have the power to monitor what is said and ban people from playing there game. So why have they not?

Many games are working hard on stopping this but is there enough effort being put in. I believe that maybe in order to protect children they can make it so you get grouped with people similar to your age. When you sign up to play a game normally you must enter your age. So why can they not make it so children under a certain age cannot be grouped together with older children who normally tend to be more veered towards such ignorant behavior. I have noticed in some games that they have a system where if u are exhibiting reckless behavior you are grouped with people making the similar actions. Therefore, If other games began to use this system maybe they may be able to limit the amount of children being exposed to such vile behavior if they cannot eliminate it completely

— Trenton S, The Greene School, R.I.

… Attempts to moderate online activity have usually backfired. Auto chat filters, for instance, can be bypassed or are too sensitive allowing trolls to use them to their advantage, baiting people into saying words close to a banned word so that they removed and may receive tempory bans. Other forms of moderation resulted in people mass reporting Youtubers or streamers resulting in them getting a similar punishment. When it comes down to it the moderation that can be placed on online games is usually ineffective and doesn’t accomplish its goal. The best way to reduce toxicity is to just make a good game so that people will be happy with it and not take their frustrations out on other players

— Antonio P., The Greene School, R.I.