‘There are bad doctors just like there are bad plumbers’

I am an obstetrician and this is an exceedingly important topic, one that many people are passionately devoting their lives to correcting. I believe that the system we work in is flawed from top to bottom, in ways that create serious gaps for low-income and low-resource patients. But I fear the author is doing a disservice to this topic by equating these particular terrifying outcomes with poor care by doctors. These anecdotes don’t highlight this crisis particularly well and only fan the flames of the anti-medicine, anti-doctor rhetoric that gets in the way of caring for people. There are bad doctors just like there are bad plumbers, but it’s the system that is failing people, not the individuals. — MMS, Cambridge, Mass.

‘I have my living child because of, not in spite of, medical science’

As a mother who recently gave birth, I am of two minds about this issue. Having seen many women of my generation flippantly reject medical care to give birth in their living rooms with midwives with little training, and others who feel guilt for years for having succumbed to C-sections, having “failed” at the ideal, natural birth, I wish that we could get over the medical-establishment-as-villain narrative. I’ve had seven pregnancies and have one living child. I have my living child because of, not in spite of, medical science. — Amv, New York

‘My wife would have died if she’d determined her own care path’

The idea that women know what’s best in some natural way is wrongheaded. My wife would have died if she’d made the now routine choice to determine her own care path and have the baby at home. This feels akin to the vaccine craze, something that’s been safe for so long but now people don’t feel the danger associated with deviating from the well-worn path. — John McDavid, Nevada

‘Women die from a lack of high-tech interventions’

Women don’t need more doulas, midwives or listening to, although all of those things can be beneficial. The two greatest threats to women’s health in and after childbirth are a doctor’s low index of suspicion of symptoms that could indicate underlying injuries and a reluctance — or inability — to deploy high-tech interventions in a timely fashion. That’s why California has had success in reducing maternal mortality. They’ve gone back to basics, recognizing that childbirth has always been, in every time, place and culture, one of the leading causes of death of women and that only technology used liberally can reduce that death rate. — Amy Tuteur, M.D., Boston

‘All of this is isolating’

Women are routinely not listened to or believed, especially black women, whose maternal mortality rates are 3.5 times higher than white women, as the author points out. Postpartum anxiety and depression, traumatic birth injuries, an abysmal lack of paid parental leave, judgment from family members, all of this is isolating, as well as physically and mentally debilitating. — New Mama, Massachusetts

Pointing out poor prenatal care is not blaming the victim

I am a physician and I have no doubt that the problems with obstetric care described are real and in need of correction. However, conditions for an optimal outcome for mother and baby start much earlier in pregnancy, if not before. Many women, particularly those who are poor or in a minority, have other adverse factors like poor nutrition, teen pregnancy and substance abuse, to name a few. Pointing this out is not “blaming the victim,” but rather showing the need for a vigorous public health response and universal access to family planning and prenatal care. — Hoarbear, Pittsburgh