Visconti’s opulent films do not exactly cry out for translation to the stage; Ingmar Bergman, whose existential cinema relies heavily on lengthy monologues, seems a far likelier candidate for adaptation. The Swedish master’s centennial year, which is now drawing to a close, has seen a slew of plays based on his vast screen output, both in his native Sweden and throughout Europe.

Bergman, who died in 2007, was also a prolific director for the theater, and many of his films show a debt to Chekhov, Strindberg and Ibsen. Given this, it seems counterintuitive and audacious that his daughter Anna Bergman has chosen to adapt for the stage one of his most experimental and purely cinematic works, “Persona” (1966).

A coproduction of the Deutsches Theater Berlin and the Malmö City Theater in Sweden (which Bergman himself ran between 1953 and 1960), Ms. Bergman’s “Persona” uses a dazzling set, an onstage deluge, ample video and good old-fashioned monologues to breathe fresh life into this intense, enigmatic study of psychological disintegration and transference.

Karin Lithman and Corinna Harfouch slip into the characters memorably portrayed by Liv Ullmann and Bibi Andersson in the film: an actress who mysteriously stops speaking in the middle of a performance and the nurse who takes care of her at a cottage on a secluded island. Ms. Harfouch, who does virtually all the talking, renders Nurse Alma’s changing, often conflicted emotions compelling and believable. Ms. Lithman is no less impressive in her silent role, as she reacts to her caregiver with, progressively, indifference, hostility and affection. (Midway through the run, the actresses will switch roles.)

A mirrored band shell (sets: Joe Schramm) is a clever and versatile setting: The warped reflections echo the surreal, off-kilter aspects of the film. But one of the production’s few missteps is Sebastian Pircher’s video. While the live close-ups of the actresses (camera: Robert Hanisch) add another level of intimacy, an elaborately nightmarish dream sequence threatens to overwhelm the actors’ stellar work by giving a visual representation of the psychological breakdown that has already been beautifully suggested through word and gesture.