Dolphins at Vikings, 1 p.m., CBS

Neither of these teams has inspired a great deal of confidence this season — Miami, at least, pulled off what will undoubtedly be the play of the season — but both are fighting for playoff spots. The Vikings (6-6-1) are in line for the N.F.C.’s second wild card, but they have to fend off challenges from Philadelphia and a resurgent Green Bay. The Dolphins (7-6) are on the outside looking in, as tiebreakers have them behind Baltimore and Indianapolis in a four-team fight, which also includes Tennessee, for the A.F.C.’s second wild card. Favoring the Vikings at home seems correct, but their recent play on offense does not justify such a large point spread. Pick: Dolphins +7

Buccaneers at Ravens, 1 p.m., Fox

The whole “you don’t lose your job to injury” line has been outdated for a while, but it’s officially not a thing in Baltimore: Lamar Jackson has replaced Joe Flacco as the quarterback of the Ravens (7-6). The reasons are apparent to anyone who has watched the rookie in four thrilling performances in which he ran (and occasionally threw) his team to three straight wins and then made Kansas City fight to beat him in overtime last week.

The Buccaneers (5-8) are ranked 20th in the N.F.L. against the rush, allowing 119.4 yards a game. There is a chance Gus Edwards, Jackson and the Ravens’ other runners may go for double that this week, but Baltimore’s style is prone to close games, so being the favorite by more than a touchdown seems incorrect. Pick: Buccaneers +7.5

Seahawks at 49ers, 4:05 p.m., Fox

The Seahawks (8-5) crushed the 49ers (3-10) just two weeks ago, and even with the game being held in Santa Clara, there is little reason to expect anything different this week. As a bonus, Seattle would clinch a playoff spot with a win, and could even get one with a tie, provided they get some help from other results. Pick: Seahawks -4.5

Redskins at Jaguars, 1 p.m., CBS

Last week, Josh Johnson threw his first pass since 2011. This week, he’ll start for the Redskins (6-7) in a road game against the Jaguars (4-9). The one thing Jacksonville has retained from last season’s run to the A.F.C. championship game is the ability to defend the pass, so expecting a repeat of Johnson’s decent performance against the Giants last week would be unwise. Las Vegas is asking for a lot by making the Jaguars 7-point favorites, but if Jalen Ramsey and the rest of the Jacksonville secondary are properly motivated, they could accomplish that with a (mostly unwatchable) 7-0 win. Pick: Jaguars -7