In an emailed statement to The Times, Mr. Weatherly apologized for his behavior with Ms. Dushku.

“During the course of taping our show, I made some jokes mocking some lines in the script,” Mr. Weatherly said in the statement. “When Eliza told me that she wasn’t comfortable with my language and attempt at humor, I was mortified to have offended her and immediately apologized. After reflecting on this further, I better understand that what I said was both not funny and not appropriate and I am sorry and regret the pain this caused Eliza.”

Written Off

“Bull,” an hourlong procedural series that premiered in September 2016, is the 10th most-watched entertainment program on network television. The main character is loosely based on Dr. Phil McGraw, who worked as a trial consultant before he became a popular talk-show host.

Dr. McGraw is one of the producers of “Bull,” as is Mr. Caron, who created the prime-time hit “Moonlighting.” Shot mainly in New York, “Bull” is produced in association with Steven Spielberg’s Amblin Television.

Mr. Weatherly, 50, was a star of the network’s most popular drama, “NCIS,” for 13 seasons before CBS gave him “Bull.” The character he plays, Dr. Jason Bull, is a self-assured trial consultant. He is also a flirt.

CBS emphasized the character’s roguish side when it marketed the show in the summer of 2016. Billboards showed a close-up of Mr. Weatherly’s face behind a double entendre in huge red letters: “He’ll Get You Off.”

Ms. Dushku, 37, has been in show business for more than 20 years. In addition to her recurring role on “Buffy the Vampire Slayer,” she was a regular on the shows “Angel,” “Dollhouse” and “Banshee.” She became a voice in the #MeToo movement earlier this year when she claimed in a Facebook post that she had been molested by a stunt coordinator as a 12-year-old on the set of the 1994 movie “True Lies.” The stunt coordinator denied her allegations.

When Ms. Dushku signed on with “Bull” at $35,000 per episode — a figure that would have increased significantly, if she had continued on the show — there were “well developed plans” to have her become a regular cast member, according to the draft of the investigators’ report.