FRIDAY PUZZLE — If you are endlessly fascinated with history as I am, crossword puzzle solving has a particularly “nichey” (as opposed to Nietzsche, which is completely different) track you can follow on XWordInfo.com. Your mileage may vary, but I find it really interesting to look at how long it has been since an entry last appeared in the Times Crossword.

Why, for example, has it been almost 50 years since a popular phrase like SO FAR SO GOOD has appeared in the puzzle? There is no structural reason; the phrase is full of vowels, which function as the mortar that binds the crossings together. There is no moral reason; no one could take offense at it. So why did it fall by the wayside?

We may never know, but it’s good to see it back in usage as an entry in Andrew J. Ries’s lovely Friday puzzle. He even used it as one of his crossing seed entries, as he mentions below in his notes. On the other hand, NASAL STRIPS, paired with a very clever clue, makes its debut in the New York Times Crossword. Go figure.

Tricky Clues

15A: This “chopper” is a helicopter, so the answer to “Handle a chopper, say” is AVIATE.

18A: Thank you, I think I will take this opportunity to post Emma Lazarus’s 1883 poem, “The New Colossus,” part of which is inscribed on a plaque on the Statue of Liberty:

Not like the brazen giant of Greek fame, With conquering limbs astride from land to land; Here at our sea-washed, sunset gates shall stand A mighty woman with a torch, whose flame Is the imprisoned lightning, and her name Mother of Exiles. From her beacon-hand Glows worldwide welcome; her mild eyes command The air-bridged harbor that twin cities frame. “Keep, ancient lands, your storied pomp!” cries she With silent lips. “Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled MASSES yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door!”

25A: I am resolutely and unashamedly not a skier, so I had to think about this one before I understood it. The answer to “Part of a cable network?” is GONDOLA because the type we are supposed to be thinking about are the trams on cables that lift skiers to the top of a mountain to skyrocket back down on two tongue depressors, risking almost certain death. Not that I’m scared or anything.