My grandmother was the genius behind the business. Malnourished as a child, she was just 4 feet 11 inches tall and weighed 90 pounds, and she was basically illiterate in all three languages she spoke (Russian, Yiddish and English). She was no clothes horse — she wore “house dresses,” soft cotton button-downs that were easy to take off and on, wash-and-wear, with a simple slip underneath, unadorned but presentable — but she was an excellent businesswoman. Her strategy was to sell off-the-rack dresses to her clientele and have seamstresses on hand to alter the clothes to fit at no charge.

When my father was a boy, one of the seamstresses took him under her wing — after he tore his pants and broke his eyeglasses playing ball she mended them so he wouldn’t get in trouble with his father, who counted his pennies and had a temper. Her name was Sherrie. She was still working in the back room when I was a girl, and I always made sure to say hi to her at her sewing machine when we visited.

There was a cardboard box filled with scraps of fabric that she kept below her machine. I loved to rummage through them, and Sherrie would let me take these schmattas home — green velvets, orange tulle, red lace. Alone in my room before my mirror I played dress-up, tying the lace around my head like a kerchief, wrapping the velvet around my body; sometimes I would stitch them together. I wish I could say I had a knack for making clothing, but I didn’t. What I had a knack for was daydreaming, and I couldn’t wait to be old enough to wear dresses like the ones my grandmother sold, to twirl in front of a mirror and have Sherrie tailor something sublime to my body so that I, too, could float around like a lady in a movie at a ball. Sadly, I never had the temerity to ask.

I last visited Schulman’s when my grandmother died in the early ’70s, when I was in junior high school, and we sat shiva. My uncle and aunt owned and ran it after that, but the neighborhood was filling now with a new generation of immigrants from Latin America; many of Schulman’s original clientele and their children had by this point moved on to the suburbs. By the time the store officially closed, I think in the early ’80s — so much time has passed, I’m not sure — I had not been there in years, and I’d long stopped thinking about it.

My father has been gone a long time now, along with his siblings and, of course, Sherrie, who was older than any of them. I have a chunky pale purple crystal necklace of hers that my father’s sister gave me when I first got married and that I still wear. I pair it with a black velvet top I got in Paris during the soldes — the crazy, state-sanctioned rock-bottom sales that occur twice a year in France. The shirt was a find, and whenever I wear it I dress it up with that necklace. I discovered when I was young that the flashes of light that come from a little sparkle seem to brighten anything, even as the lift itself is weightless and ephemeral.

Helen Schulman is the author of, most recently, the novel “Come With Me.”

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.