The proposal would change the makeup of the committee that draws district lines to allow legislative leaders to appoint eight of 13 members, four of whom would be state lawmakers. For arcane reasons that would be headache-inducing to explain, this strengthens the hand of one faction of N ew Jersey’s Democratic Party against the other.

More important , the plan would require that districting account for how major political parties performed statewide in elections for governor, senator and president — elections that Democratic candidates have dominated for years in New Jersey. While most legislative districts could be drawn to the advantage of one party or the other, the proposal would require that at least 25 percent of the districts be “competitive.” That would mean that their partisan breakdown would be within five points of the statewide average in those major races. Since the average Democratic statewide vote over the past 10 years has been about 55 percent, according to a study by the Princeton Gerrymandering Project, the “competitive” districts could be 50 to 60 percent Democratic. The study also found that under the plan, Democrats could win as many 70 percent of the legislative seats by winning only 57 percent of the statewide vote.

Rather than following the growing trend of establishing independent nonpartisan redistricting commissions, this plan just reworks a bad setup. (The current commission, which operates with no methodological guidance, is appointed by state party leaders, with a tiebreaking person in charge appointed by the State Supreme Court chief justice.)

It’s not a surprising move by veteran politicians who are experts in protecting their own power. But it flies in the face of Democrats’ frustration at extreme gerrymandering by the other side. (In Wisconsin, Democrats got 54 percent of the total votes in November’s State Assembly elections but won only 36 percent of the seats.)

Luckily, New Jersey’s Democratic governor, Phil Murphy, opposes the move, and several Democrats nationally have criticized it. Also , the fate of the measure depends on a statewide vote by New Jersey residents, not on a vote by members of a gerrymandered Legislature.