When I called Mr. Strouse, he emphasized that researchers’ psychologizing too often overlooks real suffering. “I grew up in Appalachia, and I know these people intimately,” he said. “I love them. I’ve seen what has happened to them over the last few decades. I’m a working-class person, a former labor organizer, and I feel the Democrats have stabbed them in the back over a number of years. I now live in New York and live a lifestyle that most of my former neighbors wouldn’t approve of, but I think it’s a bummer when people here misunderstand people back home and pathologize them.”

Are these scholars pathologizing or just exploring the nonrational impulses that help explain why some Americans see Mr. Trump as a swindler of working-class people, while others declare him their savior?

Political scientists often dismiss “The Authoritarian Personality” as a relic of its time, but some still speculate about Republican voters’ relationships with their fathers (and Mr. Trump’s own relationship with his). And perhaps the most popular method for studying modern authoritarianism takes its cue from one of the F-scale’s prompts: “Obedience and respect for authority are the most important virtues children should learn.” Today’s researchers often diagnose latent authoritarians through a set of questions about preferred traits in children: Would you rather your child be independent or have respect for elders? Have curiosity or good manners? Be self-reliant or obedient? Be well behaved or considerate?

“The normal response from people is: ‘I want both. I want them to be curious, and I don’t want them throwing food around in a restaurant,’” said Mr. Weiler (who teaches at the same university I do, although we had never spoken before I began to work on this article). “The reality is surely messier than what we’re capturing in this survey data,” he said. “What makes me comfortable with this is that politics forces us to make choices too.”

These questions seem to offer unmediated access to people’s pre-political temperaments. Yet a glance at the Christian group Focus on the Family’s “biblical principles for spanking” reminds us that your approach to child rearing is not pre-political; it is shorthand for your stance in the culture wars.

Moreover, using the child-rearing questionnaire, African-Americans score as far more authoritarian than whites. This result forced researchers to grant what should have been obvious: Attitudes toward parenting vary across cultures, and for centuries African-Americans have seen the consequences of a social and political hierarchy arrayed against them, so they can hardly be expected to favor it — no matter what they think about child rearing. The child-trait test, then, is a tool to identify white people who are anxious about their decline in status and power.

Mr. Weiler and his co-author, Marc Hetherington, have tried to shift the debate in their new book, “Prius or Pickup?,” by ditching the charged term “authoritarian.” Instead, they divide people into three temperamental camps: fixed (people who are wary of change and “set in their ways”), fluid (those who are more open to new experiences and people) and mixed (those who are ambivalent). “The term ‘authoritarian’ connotes a fringe perspective, and the perspective we’re describing is far from fringe,” Mr. Weiler said. “It’s central to American public opinion, especially on cultural issues like immigration and race.”