In early poems like “Surprised by Evening,” “Driving Toward the Lac Qui Parle River,” “The Shadow Goes Away,” “The Grief of Men,” one sees the translucency with which he traces the patterns of spiritual renewal. It is what his imitators fail to do, those who can’t match his almost supernatural control over the total effect of an image as representative of thought and depth of emotion:

The evening …

has come through the nets of the stars,

Through the tissues of the grass,

Walking quietly over the asylums of the waters.

This language illustrates what’s known as the Deep Image in American poetry, where light and darkness are always idealized and memory is absolutely spontaneous, a perfected visual analogue to the cry of the psyche, where “our skin shall see far off, as it does underwater.”

Image

No wonder audiences were stunned by his anti-Vietnam War book, “Light Around the Body,” which won the National Book Award in 1968, a year that saw the deaths of nearly 17,000 Americans and an estimated 180,000 Vietnamese. The best poems in that book are triumphs of reserve, where his drive to preserve the essences of human reality under assault leaves no doubt of the strength of his conviction about a nation gone berserk, beset by discrimination, poverty, mass marches, riots and war: “Let’s count the bodies over … / If we could only make the bodies smaller … / We could make a whole plain white with skulls in the moonlight.”

Because American democracy is again under threat, coming apart with chaos and bloodshed, I urge you to read what Bly said the night he won the award. Addressing “gross and savage crimes” by the government, he said institutions would have to preserve the nation, and risk “committing acts of disobedience.” Donating his prize check to the draft-resistance movement, Bly urged young men “not to destroy their spiritual lives by participating in this war.”

You cannot read Bly’s poetry without appreciating his belief that cultural integration might redeem us all. Nowhere is that more apparent than in his translations of several centuries of European, Middle Eastern and South American poets, especially Pablo Neruda, whom Bly considered the greatest poet of the 20th century. You won’t find any translations in “Collected Poems,” a shame since in those translations there is something more than just an echo of his focus on the nature of a capacious imagination:

Night after night goes by in the old man’s head.

We try to ask new questions. But whatever

The old poets failed to say will never be said.

In hindsight, the trajectory is pretty direct from Deep Imagism to political poetry to “Iron John” — with its attacks against corporate visions of masculinity — to his recent apologues of the unconscious. But the popular success and controversy of “Iron John” resulted in Bly being kicked out of the insular American poetry community for the crime of being too influential in the broader public. For decades few literary magazines have reviewed his new books.

How can one read “Collected Poems,” then, from its first wintry still lifes, whose lyricism is as clean as snow falling onto bare trees, through the grapplings with injustice, to the mannered ghazals of the last decades, without seeing that Bly’s career is one of the few great models of integrating the citizen with the mystic, whose body of work makes the argument that being a poet does not excuse you from joining in the national debate?