At the end of the production line at the concrete plant, a fork lift operator stacks the trays of paving blocks like baked bread in what look like shipping containers. Carbon dioxide, collected from the flues of industrial plants, is pumped in from a nearby tank in amounts regulated by a system using sensors and computer software. Through a chemical reaction the CO2 is incorporated in synthetic limestone instead of being released into the atmosphere. The Solidia blocks are ready for use in 24 hours — a big potential advantage over ordinary pavers, which require a couple of weeks to harden.

Experts say that Solidia’s technology, which was developed at Rutgers University, in New Brunswick, N.J., is promising. “There is absolutely no reason it should not work,” said Tom Hills, a specialist on new cements at Imperial College in London.

If Solidia’s concrete-making technology succeeds in gaining traction around the world, it could be a way of binding up large quantities of carbon dioxide in roads and other structures. That potential is attractive to oil companies looking for ways to reduce the greenhouse gases their activities produce. BP, for instance, has invested $10 million in Solidia. The company says it wants to use the technologies “near our operating facilities where we could take CO₂ generated and turn it into something material and productive,” according to David Nicholas, a company spokesman.

Winning over the cement and concrete industry will be tough for Solidia and other companies with alternatives to traditional products, Mr. Hills said. Solidia executives complain that the building industry is resistant to change, but the hesitation to adopt newer technologies is understandable. “If you want to build something that lasts 50 or 60 years, “ said Mr. Hills, who also works as a research engineer at a technology company called Calix. “Would they be willing to take the risk to build a building and to have it fall down?”

The trial run at Leighton Buzzard is part of a long and costly effort by Solidia to win converts, whom the company hopes will eventually license the technology. The company has spent around $100 million on R & D and trials like this one and is close to gaining the first glimmers of commercial acceptance.