When you move to a new city, it’s tough to make friends. You can search online communities for meet-ups, strike up fumbling conversations in coffee shops or bother friends of friends, or friends of friends of friends, until they extend invitations. Or you can rent a small theater for four or five months and cajole a bunch of famous and almost-famous actors to hang out onstage with you. You’ll even provide snacks.

That is the singular strategy adopted by the Iranian playwright Nassim Soleimanpour. In “Nassim,” produced by Barrow Street Theatricals, a different actor bounds onstage every night to open an envelope stashed inside a banker’s box. The actor doesn’t know what the envelope contains, but I’ll give it away: It’s the first page of the script, which will eventually unite Mr. Soleimanpour and the actor (some early volunteers include Michael Urie, Michael Shannon, Tracy Letts and Cush Jumbo) in an affectionate double act. Mr. Soleimanpour, who begins his role offstage, is the silent partner.

On the night I attended, the Broadway actress Linda Emond (“Cabaret,” “Death of a Salesman”), agreeable and plucky, opened that box. She read the script out loud — its pages are projected onto a large screen so that the audience can follow along — and obeyed its stage directions. When prompted, she told some stories. She learned some Farsi. She shared her favorite curse word, “slutty.” (Does Ms. Emond understand how curse words work?) Occasionally, she ate a cherry tomato.

Mr. Soleimanpour’s theatrical style first came to New York a couple of years ago with “White Rabbit Red Rabbit,” a play that shares this cold-read conceit. An allegory about authoritarianism, it eventually asks the invited actor to drink from a possibly poisoned goblet. Let’s lean on that “possibly”: Even if you suspend your disbelief from some very sturdy rigging, the likelihood that Mr. Soleimanpour will actually kill off a cluster of Tony nominees seems slim, which gives the play a deceitful, self-congratulatory vibe.