The Parkland Commission’s 400-page draft report, based on a detailed examination of timelines, emergency response records and testimony from witnesses, police, school officials and others, called for a full internal evaluation of the police response, given the commission’s finding that eight deputies from the Broward County Sheriff’s Office ignored protocol for active shooters that calls for pursuing a gunman to try to disarm him.

Other officers who came later did go in as soon as they arrived, the report noted.

“None of these BSO deputies immediately responded to the gun shots by entering the campus and seeking out the shooter,” the report said. “Deputy sheriffs who took the time to retrieve vests from containers in their cruisers, removed certain equipment they were wearing so that they could put on their vests, and then replaced the equipment they had removed all while shots were being fired, or had been recently fired, is unacceptable and contrary to accepted protocol.”

Sheriff Scott Israel, a Democrat who has been widely criticized for defending his office’s response to the shooting, has already placed two of the deputies on restricted duty. When he testified before the commission last month, he had few answers as to why his officers did not pursue the gunman.

“You just can’t measure heart,” Sheriff Israel said.

His office will conduct its own investigation after receiving the commission’s final findings on Jan. 1, Sheriff Israel said in a statement on Wednesday.

The commission’s report still could be revised, but lists tentative findings and recommendations to local officials and state lawmakers, including a controversial suggestion that the state consider allowing teachers who volunteer for training to carry weapons to school. The commission, led by the Republican sheriff of Pinellas County, Bob Gualtieri, has not made any recommendations related to gun policy.

“Classroom teachers cannot and should not be distracted with the responsibility of being armed inside a classroom, even if they think they want to,” Debbie Hixon, a Broward County schoolteacher whose husband, Chris Hixon, was killed in the Stoneman Douglas High attack, told the commission on Wednesday in Tallahassee. “The probability of something going wrong clearly outweighs that one time that there may be a shooting in the classroom.”

Florida already tightened gun laws and introduced a number of school safety requirements in the wake of the shooting. But change has proved expensive and slow, frustrating parents of the Parkland victims, including two fathers who sit on the commission. Sheriff Israel and Superintendent Robert W. Runcie of the Broward County public school district have said they are awaiting the final commission findings to make more personnel moves or adopt new policies, if needed.