And the use of capital punishment still remains largely a matter of geography. Only 14 states and the federal government imposed death sentences, with more than half coming from four states: Texas, Florida, California and Ohio. California, which has by far the largest death row population in the country, has not carried out an execution since 2006 amid challenges to its method of lethal injection. In October, Washington became the 20th state to abolish the death penalty after a court ruled it unconstitutional.

The 25 executions carried out this year were in just eight states — Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Nebraska, South Dakota, Tennessee and Texas — reflecting the relative popularity of capital punishment in the South and especially in Texas, which alone accounted for 13 executions. (At the current pace, it would take about a century to execute everyone now on death row in the United States.)

Among those killed was Carey Dean Moore, who was executed by lethal injection in Nebraska for killing two taxi drivers, after a German pharmaceutical manufacturer failed in its legal battle to stop the state from using its products to carry out the sentence. Edmund Zagorski’s last words were “Let’s rock” before he died in Tennessee’s electric chair, a method he chose because he felt it would mean less agony than lethal injection. On Tuesday, Alvin Braziel Jr. was executed in Texas after apologizing to the wife of the man he murdered “for her husband dying at my hand.”

Mr. Dunham defines the death penalty’s modern era as beginning in 1972, when executions were halted after the Supreme Court ruled 5-to-4 that capital punishment, as it was imposed, violated the Constitution, but left open the possibility that states could continue using it if they revised their statutes.

Executions resumed in 1977, and by the late 1990s, more than 50 were being carried out every year.

Select counties sent the condemned to death row in double-digit numbers — just 15 counties accounted for almost a third of all executions from 1977 to 2012. Even that wasn’t enough, in the view of Dale Cox, the former acting district attorney in Caddo Parish, La., one such death penalty stronghold. “I think we need to kill more people,” he famously said.