And what he required of America was what he required of Cohen. We had to bury values that should never be buried. In our case that meant condoning Trump’s racism; indulging his corrosive conspiracy theories and self-preserving lies; permitting his demonization of institutions and people and whole countries; interpreting cruelty as candor and provocation as strength. Too many of us assented.

In front of the judge on Wednesday, Cohen said, “I was weak for not having the strength to question and to refuse his demands.” He wondered aloud what had happened to his “own inner voice,” which, he said, “should have warned me.”

One of his comments to Stephanopoulos perhaps explains that. “There was a lot of fun going on at the Trump Organization,” he said. Sleek skyscrapers. Ornate casinos. Private jets. The Miss Universe pageant. How it glittered, distracted and lulled, so that a henchman could forget the terms and price of it.

Cohen said that in retrospect it was its own kind of incarceration, because it removed him from more important things: his family, his conscience, the respect that he owed his country. Maybe his words are simply strategic — a bid for sympathy, lenience and redemption — and maybe he has swapped one set of self-aggrandizing delusions for another. He told Stephanopoulos that by accepting blame for his wrongdoing and cooperating with prosecutors, he hoped that he would be “remembered in history as helping to bring this country back together.” We’ll need a lot more than Cohen’s penitence for that.

For every leader there are at least 10 followers ready to trade the burden and bedlam of independent thought for a playbook that tells them exactly what to do. Some of them find it in religion, others in business, still others in politics.

And con men like Trump can spot them a mile away. Trump looked at Cohen and correctly saw someone who wasn’t going to be in the fast lane unless hitched to him, and he sensed that Cohen knew it. Trump looked at America and correctly saw an anxious, uncertain populace that was ripe for facile answers, scapegoats and a narrative of unjust victimization. So he pounced. And here we are, in an even more uncertain place, with a sentence yet to be handed down.

In The Atlantic in early August, Peter Beinart, discussing Cohen, noted, “It’s not just the president’s longtime lawyer who’s stuck cleaning up his messes anymore.”