When my husband and I give money to support our church, we’re underwriting an organization we benefit from our selves . We’re saying, “I value this institution’s importance to my spiritual life.” For us, supporting our church is exactly like supporting NPR because we listen to “All Things Considered” on the way home from work or contributing to a fund-raising drive at our own children’s school. And while supporting those organizations is hugely important, donating to them is not the same thing as contributing to charity, at least not as that word is widely understood.

“I was hungry and you gave me food,” Jesus taught his disciples. “I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me.” When the disciples objected that they had done no such thing, Jesus was very clear about his relationship to people who are suffering. “Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.”

That’s why many Christian churches work hard to alleviate suffering, and member donations certainly underwrite those efforts. But outreach to the needy represents only a small portion of most church budgets. And there are other aid organizations whose sole purpose is to alleviate misery in all its guises — suffering caused by poverty, illness, abuse, natural disaster, cultural upheaval, climate change. (In the context of a suffering planet, an organization like the Natural Resources Defense Council can surely be seen as a kind of global Doctors Without Borders.) Aside from all the usual satisfactions of giving, and they are many, the way you know you’re donating to a true charity is that it doesn’t benefit you personally.

I’m not saying that people should pass an empty collection plate down the pew. I’m saying that if those of us who are living in red states want to earn the right to call ourselves the most generous people in America, we’ll need to rethink the whole nature of tithing.

While we’re setting aside money to support our churches, we’ll need to set aside even more for Doctors Without Borders, so it can bring medical care to war-torn areas of the world. We’ll need to set aside even more for the International Rescue Committee, so it can care for displaced people around the globe. We’ll need to set aside even more for AmeriCares and Direct Relief, so they can help victims of natural disasters. We’ll need to set aside even more for the local food bank, so it can feed our hungry neighbors.

The list of needs goes on and on and on. Every day, it seems, the world becomes unbearably harder for huge swaths of humanity. Millions of our fellow human beings are starving. Millions of our fellow human beings are dying of preventable diseases. Millions of our fellow human beings are refugees, fleeing war and crime and the ravages of a changing climate. We can’t feed or clothe them in the sanctuary of our own churches, but we can contribute to aid organizations that know how to help. (Check Charity Navigator for a list of the most effective nonprofits in each area of global concern.)

New changes to the United States tax code mean that only about 10 percent of taxpayers will itemize their deductions this year, and that change is widely expected to cause charitable donations to drop by $16 billion to $17 billion. That’s a dramatic — and traumatic — reduction in aid exactly when more and more people find themselves in tremendous need. But it won’t happen if we’re thinking about charity the right way: not as a tithe or as tax benefit but as a lifeline for others.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.