We’re supposed to believe she’s goaded him into slaughtering her. We’re supposed to believe that most of these women — a mother (Sofie Grabol) of two sons, a sexy date (Riley Keough, giving it her all) — have asked for it by seeking or submitting to his help. The damsels bestir a dastard. I was too bored to reach that conclusion myself. All the credit goes to Verge, the mostly offscreen conscience (as in Virgil), whose voice belongs to Bruno Ganz and who gasses on with Jack about philosophy, morality and art. He asks Jack why the victims in his stories are so stupid? Does he hate women?

And it’s here, after lots of cutaways to old footage of Glenn Gould kneading a piano and montages of arguably apt paintings (a Picasso is superimposed upon Thurman’s battered face), that von Trier exposes himself as the true subject, like a cuckoo in a clock, like a flasher. It’s possible to read this movie as an X-ray of von Trier’s sense of persecution for his alleged treatment of actresses and the characters they’ve played — Emily Watson in “Breaking the Waves,” Björk in “Dancer in the Dark,” Nicole Kidman in “Dogville,” Bryce Dallas Howard in “Manderlay,” and Charlotte Gainsbourg in “Antichrist.” Has he come to hate himself?

But to some extent every von Trier movie is some kind of self-interrogating apologia. And his previous gaze into a psychological mirror, his two-part “Nymphomaniac” opus from 2014, covered some of the same territory as this new movie while also breaking some creative ground. It, too, was brutal but it was also alive. “The House That Jack Built” has a few memorable shots and a good, rudely abrupt ending, but is also sad and repetitive, riddled with what can only be called Dad jokes. How else do you describe the shots of Matt Dillon — who’s fully committed to the deadpan mania of this part, by the way — tossing cue cards like Bob Dylan?

Something feels off with von Trier’s sense of artistry now. Something feels stuck, like his head’s wound up lodged in his rear, which brings the movie closer to “The Human Centipede” than I would have thought. But this isn’t cinematic horror. It’s proctology.