This past summer, Microsoft also donated $1,000 to Roger Roth, the Republican president of the Wisconsin Senate. Last week, Roth ordered the senate galleries be cleared of protesters before senators voted on bills that would strip power from the incoming Democratic governor and attorney general. Scott Walker, the Wisconsin governor, still needs to sign the bills for them to become law.

This week, a Microsoft spokes woman — who asked not to be named — said the following to my colleague Ian Prasad Philbrick: “As a company working to encourage technology innovation in Wisconsin, we’re concerned that this effort will undermine the state’s ability to attract investment. We believe the state’s future will be better served if Governor Walker vetoes these measures.”

J.P. Morgan Chase would not defend or criticize the power grab. It issued a statement to us saying that it donated “a roughly equal amount of money” to Republicans and Democrats in Wisconsin during the recent election cycle. The company has “no further comment” on its donations.

Humana officials declined to discuss the substance of the situation: “We have not directly or indirectly engaged in the current issues advanced by legislative leadership following the recent election,” the company said. Dr Pepper Snapple did not respond to requests for comment.

Walgreens was the focus of my column this week. It made three donations to Wisconsin Republicans this year, evidently as a thank-you for protecting a property-tax loophole that saves Walgreens a lot of money.

Brian Faith, a Walgreens vice president, told me that the company’s government-relations team called the offices of both Walker and the top two leaders in the Wisconsin Legislature. In those phones calls, company officials “formally voiced Walgreens ’ opposition” to the measures “aimed at restricting the powers of the incoming administration.” The company also filed a public notice expressing opposition to a bill that would limit the incoming governor’s power on parts of health care policy.

Faith told me: “I know you think we should also request our contributions back, as we did with Senator Hyde-Smith [the Mississippi senator who made a joke referring to lynching]. I would suggest there’s a difference between disagreeing with a political/policy action or position versus a situation where highly charged words and phrases were used publicly by a candidate with racial connotations that offended key stakeholders and are at odds with our company’s values.”