Ms. Fardin has provided a prominent face for the #MeToo movement in Argentina, said Alison Brysk, a professor at the University of California and an expert in human rights in the country. But a broader women’s rights movement has been active in Argentina for years, inciting public debate on topics like reproductive rights and violence against women.

“They have the public presence and the respectability to fill that space that the average woman can’t,” Ms. Brysk said of the actresses speaking out. “But it’s coming a little bit in reverse order in Latin America. The grass-roots organizing has been around for awhile, and the sort of ‘Me Too’ movement is just arriving.”

The actresses who backed Ms. Fardin — a collective of women who joined together to lobby for the legalization of abortion, around 100 of whom were at the news conference on Tuesday — are conscious of this dynamic.

“We want this case to be the tip of the spear,” said Jazmín Stuart, one of the actresses who helped Ms. Fardin publicize her accusation.

Women are speaking out in front of the cameras and in the courts. On Thursday night, María Del Cerro, a contestant in “Bailando por un Sueño” (“Dancing for a Dream”), a dance competition show that is part of the television program “Showmatch,” said she had been abused when she was 11.

And in a move that shows how Ms. Fardin’s accusation could reverberate politically, Claudia Guebel, a former aide to Senator Juan Carlos Marino, of La Pampa Province, filed a judicial complaint against him, claiming he had sexually assaulted her earlier this year. In an interview with local radio station Continental, Ms. Guebel said she had been inspired to come forward by Ms. Fardin.

Violence against women has long been an issue in Argentina, and the reckoning that appears to be emerging from Ms. Fardin's accusation comes after years in which women’s rights have been on the public agenda — first evident in mass protests against femicides and later in demonstrations demanding the legalization of abortion.