A DNA test would not reveal any of this history. It would not tell me anything about one of the enduring stories in my family, that my great-grandfather helped to found schools for his people at the turn of the last century and was forced to leave North Carolina when his entire town was burned to the ground, presumably by people who disliked the town’s organizing.

He came north. He went to Dartmouth College. He studied there in the early 1900s, amid the rise of eugenics movements. He was with a handful of other black students. One of them, lighter-skinned, remembered him only as “that little black man.” His skin was the darkest of all of them. When he graduated from Dartmouth, he was still listed in the New Hampshire census as a popcorn seller.

Many northern white universities would not hire a black English professor in 1910. He left his family to travel the South for decades, teaching at black colleges. He created my grandmother, one of the strongest, most-loving, smartest women I ever knew. I was terrified of her for most of my life.

She moved to an all-white suburb of Boston at the start of the 1950s to make sure that her children had access to a good education. She worked for years as an administrative assistant at Harvard University and opened her doors to international students in the Boston area every Thanksgiving. She, too, had a school — an informal one she ran for my mother and her siblings during the summer so that they could be twice as good as everyone else once they got to school in the fall.

If I were to have a child now, its DNA would not contain any trace of any of this story and would certainly not act as evidence to support it. I would, perhaps, look to see whether it loved books and education as much as its maternal ancestors did. But DNA would not reveal whether a child I had now would have the fortitude to survive the world it would be born into.

If I had a child now, it would be a part-black, part-Jewish child in a country where white supremacist attacks do not look to be ending anytime soon. It would be a c ountry that could lose much of its coastline to rising sea levels.

The morning after the 2016 election, overwhelmed with what felt like the inescapable pull of history and biology, I told my mother: “I guess this means I’m never having children. I can’t imagine giving birth to a child under Trump, and in four years it will be too late for me.”