She had never felt this tired, she told her psychiatrist. Sometimes she felt so weak, she had to do her work lying down. Even sitting was a struggle by the end of the day. Her diplopia came and went with no discernible pattern. Maybe my doctor was right, the middle-aged woman suggested. Maybe it is all stress. No, Sarid replied. I’m not sure what you have, but I am certain it’s not due to stress.

“I have a friend, a colleague, who I bet can figure this out,” Sarid told the discouraged woman. She called Robert Yufe, a neurologist she’d known for decades. She outlined the symptoms she’d seen and heard about over the past year, then offered her own diagnosis: Could she have myasthenia gravis?

↓

An Unusual Condition

Myasthenia (from the ancient Greek meaning muscle weakness) gravis (from the Latin meaning severe) has been puzzling physicians for at least three centuries. It was first described in 1672 by the physician Thomas Willis, who wrote (in Latin) of people who “are able at first rising in the morning to walk” but who later in the day “are scarce able to move Hand or Foot.” We now know that myasthenia gravis (M.G.) is a rare autoimmune disorder in which antibodies interfere with the message the brain sends to the muscles. The hallmark of the disease is weakness that worsens with activity and improves with rest. In many patients, M.G. will affect the muscles of the face first.

Yufe saw the patient a few weeks later. On that day, she had no symptoms, except her persistent fatigue. Her diplopia and facial droop had resolved. She told him about her peculiar symptoms and normal tests and how other doctors thought it was stress. In a woman with symptoms that wax and wane over time, two uncommon diagnoses came to Yufe’s mind: multiple sclerosis (M.S.) — a disease that causes asymmetric weakness that can come and go and is usually progressive — and myasthenia gravis. Each is seen more often in women than in men and strikes young adults. A normal M.R.I. made M.S. unlikely, because that disease usually attacks the fatty myelin sheath that surrounds the nerves. The sites of those attacks are seen on an M.R.I. as bright silvery white spots against normal dark gray brain tissue.

↓

An Unusual Test

Because M.G. doesn’t show up on imaging, it is often hard to diagnose. Yufe asked the patient to roll her eyes upward for as long as she could. With M.G., usually the muscles of the upper eyelid will tire, and the lid will drop no matter how hard the patient tries to keep the eye open. Not this time. He had her raise her arm over her head and keep it there. Like the eyelid, the shoulder and arm muscles should tire. They didn’t. Still, a normal exam didn’t mean she couldn’t have M.G. The symptoms are often erratic.

He sent the patient for a blood test to look for the antibodies associated with M.G. and referred her for a test known as a single-fiber electromyography study — an up-close look at how the nerves speak to the individual muscle fibers. Not everyone with M.G. will have these antibodies, but nearly all will have an abnormal nerve study. She didn’t have the antibodies, but her nerve study was strikingly abnormal. She had M.G.