The company not only publishes plays and musicals, but also licenses them, which means it grants permission for amateur and professional performances in exchange for a fee.

“The reason that this completely makes sense is given the competitive outlook of the industry, especially with Concord having acquired some of the major players — I just knew that competition was going to be a lot more fierce, and we were going to run into some headwinds,” said Nate Collins, the president of Samuel French and a great-grandson of one of the company’s early-20th-century presidents. “We have been family-owned and operated since 1830, and the outlook of the industry required that we have backing from an institution with more resources.”

The Samuel French imprint will continue to exist, and Mr. Collins will become its general manager; the company will move from near Gramercy Park to the Chelsea neighborhood of New York, where Concord has been consolidating its theater operations. Mr. Collins said he expected most of the company’s employees to retain their jobs. He said the merger would benefit playwrights, because it would allow for more technological innovation and stronger relationships with producers.

Concord is now not only publishing and licensing theatrical scripts, but is also releasing cast albums (including “Come From Away” and this year’s revival of “Carousel”) and investing in theatrical productions (including the musical “Jagged Little Pill,” featuring the songs of Alanis Morissette, which is poised to transfer to Broadway as soon as the producers can find an available theater of suitable size).

“Over the course of the last couple of years these iconic, mostly family-held companies, who have carefully curated their shows and the writers they represent, have combined into something that has the scale to service those titles with the best current business practices,” said Sean Patrick Flahaven, who has been chief executive of The Musical Company and will now run Concord Theatricals. “Concord is very much interested in signing more shows and more writers and investing in shows, and has the financial ability to do that.”