And this episode deliberately shows Laoghaire as a gracious host who helps a stranger in need. It is only after Brianna reveals her family connections (and suspicious foreknowledge) that Laoghaire throws a spanner in the works. It’s a deeply uncomfortable position for Brianna. No wonder she looks strained when little Joanie asks her to make Jamie come home.

And that strain is nothing compared to Brianna’s last moments with Frank.

Claire and Frank’s marriage last season was a fascinating collapse because it wasn’t inevitable at first. Claire knew Frank was a good man — supportive of Claire’s career, an excellent father and not sexually threatening (rarely guaranteed among the characters on this show). We understand why Claire never got over the trauma of leaving Jamie, and how she felt Frank was the interloper. But this setup asked us to consider how devotion to the absent ideal prevented any present contentment. Claire and Frank drove each other away in a rift of their own making. In a show in which things often seem predestined, this was unique: It felt character-driven and realistically messy.

Revisiting that collapse from a different perspective is fascinating. Here, Brianna remembers Frank as the comforting parent she turned to. They sometimes seem to be stating their connection rather than showing it, since so much depends on the deflection and lies surrounding the obituary. But we also see the prison Frank has built for himself, hunting ghosts and unable to be honest with his daughter. (Tobias Menzies lends depth to every loaded silence.)

Thanks to Joanie, Brianna manages to yank victory from the jaws of defeat, escape Laoghaire and board a boat for North Carolina (with a ladies’ maid, no less). But she went back centuries to find her blood family and experience Jamie’s world, and it seems at times (to her and to us) as if she were a tourist rather than a participant — the connection she is looking for is never quite there. This first foray into understanding Jamie certainly hasn’t made her feel any closer to him yet: It’s Frank she imagines at the crossroads, before she gathers her nerve to set sail.

“Outlander” is best when it allows characters to have deep, nuanced relationships that don’t always sit easily in all directions. Brianna is forced to consider two absent fathers this episode, both of them hers. Jamie’s absence seems sort of mythical to her, especially given the quest she’s on now. Frank’s love for Brianna was a much more practical scone-sharing sort, but it held strong even when he was going down some ignoble paths. Her farewells to him, both at his graveside and at the port, reflect an abiding love. Jamie, to her, is still the stuff of fairy tales — and now, some very awkward family stories. Let’s see what happens when she compares her father of memory to her father of myth.