Mr. McAllister, then an inspector with the department, had used connections in other law enforcement agencies to make the lane closure happen, Mr. Rechnitz said. He said Mr. McAllister had accepted numerous gifts over the years from him, including a watch, a trip to Miami and a diamond ring for his daughter. Mr. McAllister, currently the police commissioner for Floral Park, N.Y. has previously denied any wrongdoing.

By 2012, Mr. Rechnitz had his own firm, JSR Capital, and allowed Mr. Reichberg to move into the company’s midtown office on Fifth Avenue, where people seeking help with police matters often met with him. Sometimes, Mr. Rechnitz brought clients to Mr. Reichberg, and the men would split the profits after Mr. Reichberg paid his contacts.

Mr. Rechnitz testified that Mr. Reichberg also used his connections in the Department of Buildings to expedite permits, and in state court — he tapped New York State Court Officers Association president Dennis Quirk — to get people out of jury duty. Mr. Quirk did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

They also obtained numerous favors for themselves. In 2014, for instance, Mr. Reichberg, in order to impress Tara Sheils, a nurse he was interested in romantically, arranged for a police sergeant to drive her to and from a nail salon in Brooklyn, she testified. She also said Mr. Reichberg had a police officer guard his room when he was hospitalized for minor surgery.

Prosecutors said Mr. Reichberg also used his connections to influence promotions within the department. Prosecutors suggested that several of Mr. Reichberg’s interactions with then Deputy Police Chief Michael Harrington resulted in the promotion of at least seven officers to their precinct of choice.

A junket to Las Vegas

Eventually, the men became more bold. Mr. Reichberg met a prostitute at a bachelor party at a Midtown hotel in 2013, and later arranged for her to join him and four other men on a private jet to Las Vegas for Super Bowl weekend. Mr. Rechnitz said he spent $59,000 for the jet.

The prostitute, Gabriella Curtis, also known as Gabi Grecko, testified that she and Mr. Grant engaged in sexual activity on the plane and in the hotel room she shared with him that weekend. She said others in the party also partook in her services.