Yes, the fussy chickadees still call out to defend their claim on the feeders in my yard. And the Carolina wrens that nest every summer in the hanging ferns under the eaves will sometimes stand on a fence post and chirrup their own irritation into the gray sky. But it’s not the same as waking into a morning full of bird song. A walk in the woods is an exercise in near silence now, the only sounds my own lumbering footfall and the huff of my breath on an uphill path.

And yet.

Winter can be the best time of year for backyard bird-watching. The mockingbirds are finally interested in the suet balls they disdained all summer, and the gorgeous blue jays, their bright colors even bluer against the sepia backdrop of winter, carry away the unshelled nuts I set along the deck rail for squirrels. The tiny dark-eyed juncos that spent all summer in the Far North are back now, hopping around in the leaf litter, picking up the safflower seeds the tufted titmice push out of the feeder in their search for the sunflower seeds they prefer.

Now the downy woodpeckers, with their striped wings and their tidy red caps, come and go from the peanut feeder, not nearly so cautious in my presence as in the days of summertime plenty. They swoop to their feast with the characteristic undulating flight of their kind. If I ever get around to hanging Christmas garland this year, I will try arrange it in a way that mimics the exact arc of their flight.

On especially cold mornings, when bitter temperatures overnight have frozen all the puddles, every songbird in Middle Tennessee, it seems, comes to my back deck to enjoy the heated birdbath. One morning last week I looked out the window and saw six bluebirds gathered in a ring around the edge of it, dipping their beaks into the bowl over and over again while the air above the heated water puffed into fog in the cold.

In winter the neighborhood hawk sits still in the bare branches of trees, a perch where she is invisible to me at any other time of year. Now I can see even the claws on her great yellow feet extending beyond the fluffed feathers she has drawn around them. The neighborhood crows know very well that she is there, and they have a few furious words for her as she waits, calmly surveying them as they swoop around her head, close but not too close.