Then why doesn’t he clean up the apparatus?

The blunt answer is: because he is afraid to. An efficient military could stage a coup against him. So inefficiency is a price Mr. Putin will pay.

And when did the sloppiness start?

The first public poisoning we know about — apparently with dioxin — was the attempt on Sept. 5, 2004, to kill Viktor Yushchenko, a candidate opposing a pro-Kremlin favorite in a Ukrainian presidential election. He recovered and won the presidency.

Within two weeks of that poisoning, and soon after the Georgian Rose Revolution, a series of terrorist attacks struck Georgian infrastructure. That Sept. 14, a power line in the Hashuri region was blown up. That was followed by explosions on Sept. 20 and Oct. 9 and 10. The Georgian police said the group responsible was headed by a G.R.U. major, Roman Boiko. A later group was run, according to Georgians, by another G.R.U. major, Yevgeny Borisov .

But the attacks were not always successes. The agents blew up an old pipeline, mistaking it for a new one. Instead of blowing up a wall of the American Embassy, they blew up an adjacent wall. When a bomb set to blow up a railway bridge on Oct. 2, 2010, didn’t go off, the agent responsible for the attack tricked his handlers by claiming, incredibly, that the Georgians were hushing up an explosion. To check his story, Major Borisov’s deputy called a European Union monitoring mission in Georgia with profuse offers of help, all but admitting the provenance of the device. Five days later, it was discovered intact, completing the major’s humiliation.

When Vano Merabishvili, formerly in charge of the Georgian police as internal affairs minister, discussed these attacks with me in 2011 (before he was ousted by Georgia’s corrupt and often pro-Kremlin elite and imprisoned on trumped-up charges), he opined that graft and greed were the real causes of all this bungling. The Russian officers, he suggested, were stealing most of the funds allocated to carry out the attacks. What was left was peanuts, and for peanuts you can hire only losers.

Why is all this history important? Because the timing hints at the motivation behind all of this skulduggery. The Yushchenko poisoning occurred on Sept. 5, 2004. The attacks on Georgia started a week later — in the wake of “color” revolutions for democracy in Ukraine and Georgia, and also during the American-led war in Iraq.

A former economic adviser to Mr. Putin, Andrei Illarionov, is undoubtedly right when he says that the war was the turning point of the Russian president’s policies, Before it, Mr. Putin presented himself as an ally of the West and even sought Russia’s membership in NATO. But he considered Iraq within Russia’s sphere of influence and adamantly opposed the war America began there in 2003.