They do not think that they have different ideas from others. Instead they think they have the only conceivable ideas. (The history of the etiquette column is party to this, as it’s about the One True Way to be.) They believe they are as one with the fountain of all sources, the original thought. That is why many, particularly men , keep their passion subterranean. They believe and enact the ruse that Janet Malcolm called “the pose of fair-mindedness, the charade of evenhandedness.”

As it happens, in the course of my short career as an advice-giver, the great bulk of my unhappy email and direct messages has arrived from men. I do not believe that I would get all these emails if my name were clearly male (oh, to be a Tom or a Ted).

But I no more expect a reader to decide that I have divined the one true truth of a situation than I would expect every reader of Ross Douthat to come to crave the return of the WASP ruling elite. At best, after all, a work friend is someone who says something alien and upsetting and objectionable, forcing you to plumb your own values.

And a critic, a columnist or an agony aunt, being passionate, should not make everyone or maybe even anyone happy. Ms. Malcolm wrote: “If the writer actually didn’t care one way or the other how things came out, he would not bestir himself to represent them.” No man is a high road. Dispassion is fraud.

Many of the men who complain to me, or to my bosses, simply misunderstand. Some of them disagree; some of them are looking for an argument. At least a few are lonely. (Same!) But mostly we have, in the end, had a great experience together. I try to remind unhappy readers that I am but one little burst of pixels, one half-page on Sundays; that we have such a vast abundance of riches in news and entertainment and opinion, such amazing journalism arriving from Laos to Lagos to Los Angeles, and an onslaught of special sections both in print and online. Not to mention the Styles section, which, as you know, is so much better than everything else!