Mix it up

Creaming sugar into butter is doable by hand, but a stand mixer gets the job done much faster Plus, it ensures consistency from batch to batch, so all your cookies come out the same.

We’ve tested stand mixers from half a dozen companies, but were thoroughly unsurprised when the KitchenAid Artisan came out on top. Its combination of power, stability, and wide range of speeds allows it to tackle almost any home baking project.

If you’re only an occasional baker, however, opt for an easily storable hand mixer. Don’t fall for an underpowered and unbalanced stand mixer, even if it’s cheap.

Roll and cut

Sure, you can roll out cookie dough with a wine bottle, but a well-made rolling pin makes the job far easier (and costs about the same as a bottle of wine.) The Whetstone Woodenware 23-inch pin we recommend is an all-purpose rolling pin, as you might expect of a tool that evolved in France’s lavish patisseries.

Its flat middle section rolls out rectangles of dough for cookies, biscuits, and breakfast pastries, and its tapered ends act as pivots for rolling circular pie crusts. If you only bake cookies, the simpler JK Adams 19-Inch Rolling Dowel is purpose-built for rolling out rectangles, and you can outfit it with silicone spacers to help achieve perfectly uniform thickness.

When it comes to cutting out those cookies, Ateco’s stainless steel cutters don’t rust, and they’re sturdier and stiffer than traditional tin-plated cookie cutters. They’re on the small side, however, at about 2½ inches. If you want bigger cookies, Ateco makes cutters for those too, including fun, more generic shapes like snowflakes and snowmen. If you want to get the kids involved, we like Wilton’s 101-piece plastic set. It includes shapes for Christmas, Valentine’s Day, and the alphabet (among others), and the cutters are safer than metal ones since the edges aren’t as sharp.

Bake like a pro (and not just cookies)

“Too many kitchen cupboards house a hodgepodge of clunker baking sheets,” Ms. Preston explained. “You know the kind. Warped. Wobbly. Dented. So thin they’re apt to char the undersides of cookies before browning the tops.”