Here are 12 offerings, from board books to middle-grade novels, for the next generation of feminist boys and girls:

Image Credit...

My First Book of Feminism (for Boys)

By Julie Merberg, Illustrated by Michéle Brummer-Everett

Children learn society’s gender stereotypes by the time they start preschool. This board book challenges stereotypes early with rhymes and drawings that address grown-up issues like equal pay, consent and domestic labor with toddler-level directness. Despite the title, it’s not just for boys. And despite the fact that the word “feminism” can be controversial, this book uses the simplest definition: the equality of the genders. For example, boys do fewer chores than girls and are discouraged more than girls from doing gender atypical activities. This book encourages boys to help around the house, and tells them, “If you learn to work hard, you can do something cool — fight fires, bake cakes, fly a spaceship, teach school.”

Image

Today I Feel ...: An Alphabet of Feelings

By Madalena Moniz

In a recent Pew Research Center survey, the majority of adults said there was too little emphasis on encouraging boys to talk about their feelings when they were sad or upset (as opposed to showing anger instead), and too little emphasis on encouraging girls to stand up for themselves. Experts say everyone would benefit from a bigger emotional vocabulary. This book offers 26 feelings, one for each letter of the alphabet: “invisible,” “light,” “nervous,” “quiet,” “relaxed.”

Image Credit...

Julián Is a Mermaid

By Jessica Love

Girls today feel increasing freedom to be whatever they want to be, but boys still feel like their options are limited to being tough, athletic and stoic, according to a recent survey of American children. This book is an ode to the creative boys who love beautiful things. When Julián is riding the subway with his abuela, he sees three women fabulously dressed as mermaids, and he tells her he is one, too. When they arrive home, he transforms himself, with lipstick, a tail made of curtains and a headdress made of fern fronds, and his grandmother models unconditional acceptance.