But more than half of the book is explicitly devoted to books themselves; to life as both a purposeful and a serendipitous reader. Much of this material is winningly geeky and enthusiastic: “As front matter goes, I get especially giddy about translator’s notes, and for years I’ve toyed with the idea of editing an anthology of them.” And: “I’m obsessed with books about people who, for unclear reasons, ruin their own lives.” In the category of book titles, she disapproves of the “rhythmic sing-songiness” of those like “I Know This Much Is True” and “All the Light We Cannot See.” She adds: “As far as meter goes I think spondees make for the best, snappiest titles: ‘White Noise.’ ‘Jane Eyre.’ ‘Bleak House.’”

Image Elisa Gabbert Credit... Adrianne Mathiowetz

Gabbert remembers picking up a book at the library, only to put it back when she realized it was written as “one long incantatory paragraph,” according to its cover copy. “I have no desire to read a book without paragraph breaks,” she writes. “A lack of white space on the page makes me feel a little panicky, like being on a train in an underground tunnel — what’s my exit strategy?”

More than once while reading “The Word Pretty,” I fondly remembered Anne Fadiman’s “Ex Libris: Confessions of a Common Reader,” published 20 years ago, with essay titles like “My Odd Shelf,” “Never Do That to a Book” and “Words on a Flyleaf.” Fadiman’s book came before, and Gabbert’s book comes after, the golden age of blogs, but they both share some of that medium’s strengths. They’re loose-limbed and low-stakes. There aren’t enough books like these. They offer the pleasure of personal essays that are more inquisitive and obsessive than self-centered, and they are pitched squarely at readers. They are almost, in the way they spring from and itemize the act of reading, meta-books.

Like any good magpie, Gabbert keeps the delightful facts coming, and often leads into them the way she might at a dinner party, with some version of: “I read somewhere that…” In this vein, she notes that Kafka’s “Metamorphosis” is difficult to translate into Japanese because of “insect appreciation” — meaning, in short, that the Japanese might not find it all that gross or jarring to wake up as a giant bug. In a piece about the establishment of time in fiction, she writes about someone who studies caves and has lived in them for longish stretches to find out what his daily use of time would look like without any sunlight or conventional obligations to dictate it.