“This shows that Juul is all about maximizing sales and profit,” said Eric N. Lindblom, director for tobacco control and food and drug law at the O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law at Georgetown University. “You don’t team up with a company that has an incredible vested interest in customers’ smoking and in maintaining that market share as long as they can.”

Public health officials also say they worry that Altria could use its investment to learn how Juul operates and to strengthen the startup’s growing lobbying efforts: Altria, itself still a potent lobbying force in Washington, could also dampen the role Juul might have played in pushing for regulatory measures to promote e-cigarettes over their deadlier combustible cousins.

Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, has floated a proposal to reduce the nicotine levels in cigarettes to make e-cigarettes a more compelling alternative to smokers.

But Altria has been involved in a plan to discourage Dr. Gottlieb’s nicotine-cutting proposal. Publicly, Altria says it supports an eventual reduction in nicotine levels, but it has quietly engineered a campaign to kill the effort by having thousands of form letters sent to the F.D.A. in protest.

“If you combine the resources of Juul and Altria, together you create one of the wealthiest, most powerful corporations we have seen – one whose interests are directly linked to preventing or delaying legislative or regulatory action which discourages use of their products,” said Matthew Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.

“Juul’s behavior has already called into question its credibility as a company that cares about the health of the public,” he said, adding that the deal would “dramatically alter the perception that this was a company whose goal was to reduce, if not eliminate, the use of cigarettes.

In an effort to staunch the soaring rates of vaping among teenagers, the F.D.A. has been cracking down on Juul and other companies, demanding that they not sell most flavored products in retail outlets where they could be accessible to youths.