New this week:

THE HEBREW BIBLE Translated by Robert Alter. (Norton, $125.) Alter is the first person to single-handedly produce a translation of the complete Hebrew Bible. His achievement is monumental, marked by literary grace and intelligent commentary. TO OBAMA By Jeanne Marie Laskas. (Random House, $28.) Every evening of his presidency, Barack Obama read 10 letters from the thousands that arrived at the White House daily. These are some of the pleas, rants and sad stories he received. DANCE IN AMERICA Edited by Mindy Aloff, foreword by Robert Gottlieb. (Library of America, $40.) This wide-ranging collection of writing about dance — 100 entries spanning three centuries, including pieces by the likes of Josephine Baker and Susan Sontag — tells the story of an evolving and deeply felt art form. THE NEW YORK TIMES BOOK OF POLITICS Edited by Andrew Rosenthal, foreword by Maureen Dowd. (Sterling, $27.95.) Can you capture in one book the sweep of politics over the past 167 years? Rosenthal gives it a shot in this engaging compendium. REDISCOVERING TRAVEL By Seth Kugel. (Liveright, $26.95.) Kugel, who wrote the Frugal Traveler column for The Times for six years, makes a case for returning to an older form of travel, before Google Maps and TripAdvisor, when curiosity about the unknown was the guiding principle.

& Noteworthy

In which we ask colleagues at The Times what they’re reading now.

“I moved to Hong Kong in the middle of the tumultuous confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. For the past two years, I’d investigated sexual misconduct. And as I watched this consequential story play out and began digging into reporting about women’s issues here, I downloaded Rebecca Traister’s GOOD AND MAD alongside Leta Hong Fincher’s BETRAYING BIG BROTHER. The books provide a fresh perspective on the female fury that fueled the #MeToo movement as well as the limits and the potential of the revolution. In ‘Good and Mad,’ Traister describes how women’s rage — often masked by tears and comedy or denigrated and diminished, if expressed — has shaped American history, politics and social movements. In ‘Betraying Big Brother,’ Fincher illustrates the nascent feminist movement in China by recounting the story of the five feminist activists who were jailed for 37 days in 2015 after handing out stickers protesting sexual harassment. She argues that misogyny is at the core of China’s authoritarian regime and that a feminist movement, if not suppressed, could prove to be the country’s ‘most transformative movement.’”

— Emily Steel, business reporter

