In recent days, Taylor Swift announced that a full-length film based on a performance from her “Reputation” tour will soon be streaming on Netflix, the platform where a filmed performance from Bruce Springsteen’s “Springsteen on Broadway” show just became available.

Will you watch either of these recorded performances? Would you seek out tickets to concerts, plays or other forms of entertainment if you knew that eventually you would be able to watch the performance on your computer, television or phone?

In the Opinion essay “Internet Church Isn’t Really Church,” Laura Turner writes about one more communal aspect of life that can be experienced via the internet, going to worship:

Religious affiliation in America is down, according to a 2015 Pew survey. Religious institutions more and more reflect an insular community, and Churchome Global is the best distillation of where American Christianity is headed — your living room, your phone, your television. No longer will you have to leave your house to interact with fellow worshipers. You can do it all from the comfort, and isolation, of your own home. But this individual, isolated experience of church is the poorer one for those of us who are able to go. (Live-streaming services are of course important for the homebound.) In an era when everything from dates to grocery delivery can be scheduled and near instant, church attendance shouldn’t be one more thing to get from an app. We can be members of a body best when we are all together — we can mourn when we observe and wipe away tears, just as we can rejoice when we can share smiles and have face-to-face conversations. Studies show that regular attendance at religious services correlates with better sleep, lower blood pressure in older adults and a reduced risk of suicide. I doubt these same phenomena occur when online church is substituted for the real thing, because the truth is that community is good for us. We need one another.

Students, read the entire essay, then tell us:

— How do you think the experience of watching ceremonies, events or performances on your television, computer screen on phone compares to being there in person? Is attending a live event always better? Why or why not?

— How important is it, if at all, to interact with or simply be in the presence of other people at those events? Explain.

— Do you agree with Ms. Turner that a communal aspect of worship is missing when one uses an app to live-stream a religious service instead of being present physically?

— What do you think about the growing number of churches that offer services on the internet, or the increasing opportunities to live-stream events, from meetings and classroom lectures to e-sports and fashion shows? Is this a positive trend? Why?