And when it comes to setting boundaries, you can start with something subtle like staying off email after you leave the office. That way you don’t need to say, “No, I can’t do this tonight.” You simply don’t know about the assignment until the next day.

[Like what you’re reading? Sign up here for the Smarter Living newsletter to get stories like this (and much more!) delivered straight to your inbox every Monday morning.]

Dismissive Avoidant Attachment

Individuals with dismissive avoidant attachment at work tend to think they are smart and everyone else is stupid. Well, maybe not exactly stupid, but definitely not as smart as they are. They most likely decide what they should do and then ignore what others want. This leads to conflict and mistrust. This mistrust can lead to others attempting to micromanage and monitor them, which just makes them more annoyed and more likely to dismiss input.

How to tell if this is you

For those around you, your biggest time management issue is most likely that you miss deadlines and don’t do the work that they consider most important.

From your perspective, the biggest time management issue tends to be working late. Long hours usually arise when you get fixated on doing a particular project really well. Or they can happen because you want to work on what you consider to be important first and then you also have to complete work for others.

What to do about it

To make a change, you need to start by acknowledging that other people may have a point. You may not agree with their stated priorities, you may think you know better, and you may even think that the work is stupid.

But if you want to achieve greater success, have people micromanage you less and work fewer hours, there will be times when you are better off listening to and doing what other people say. To make this shift, you may need to consciously work on your emotional intelligence, including recognizing that an idea different from yours is not necessarily wrong and that there is value in working harmoniously with others.