Einstein was specifically referring to theories of principle in physics, but the idea that science could produce such powerful, all-encompassing explanations appealed to scholars in a range of fields. Economists, linguists, anthropologists and even manufacturers put forth their own grand ideas, publishing unified theories of everything from surgical shock to employment. Theory gradually became the fulcrum of disciplines like literary scholarship and philosophy. Other disciplines didn’t always uphold the granular empiricism of Einstein’s general theory, but they tended to get the sweeping rhetoric just right. Everyone talks; theorists talk big.

What distinguishes the modern “theory” is the outsourcing of corroboration. Many seem altogether indifferent to the evidence available. Claims like the president’s function as writing prompts: He provides the premise and others search for its explanation.

In calmer waters, this crowdsourcing dynamic can be a pleasant one. In online fan communities, for instance, theories are great entertainment; it’s fun and enriching to pose a provocative thought like “Jack from ‘Titanic’ is a time traveler” and gnaw on it as a group, producing imaginative close readings of a work. Megaweird ideas, too — the theory that the parents in “The Brady Bunch” murdered each other’s former spouses, or that Stevie Wonder can actually see — are absurd enough to make for amusing thought experiments.

But it’s telling that the first two rules of r/FanTheories, a Reddit forum dedicated to such speculation, are “Don’t be a jerk” and “Please provide evidence.” Open-ended prompts don’t lend themselves to dispute. How can you collectively weigh claims without knowing what the claims are or what evidence prompted them? To dig into the president’s voter-fraud theories, you would have to imagine hundreds of disparate polling centers being duped on a scale decisive enough to swing elections, including legions of fraudulent voters, spoofed registrations, recruiters and managers — a staggeringly sophisticated secret cabal that decided, for some reason, to devote all its energy to losing a presidential election. What is this even a theory of? Without shared evidence or explicit reasoning, a theory is just a befuddling spectacle — spitballs taking flight.

But there’s always an audience eager to keep those spitballs in the air. Before a suspect was identified in October’s pipe-bomb campaign against news organizations and Trump critics, theories proliferated even as information remained scarce. The conservative pundit (and former Kanye West tutor) Candace Owens tweeted (then deleted) that they were “fake bomb threats” by leftists “going ALL OUT for midterms.” The film producer and conspiracy buff Tariq Nasheed considered it “clear” that the bomber was connected to law enforcement. The right-wing vlogger Bill Mitchell had another conjecture: “Here’s my theory: This ‘bomb scare’ is a hoax perpetrated by Democrat operatives to stop Trump from calling them a mob and blunt his rallies.”

Theorists pointed to the current political climate, divisive political rhetoric, the long histories of right- and left-wing violence, the recklessness of our leaders, the looming elections. It felt as though all they were doing was pointing, offering no real interpretation. In the absence of evidence, they doubled down on their convictions and speculated about how those convictions might be confirmed. The truth was out there, they insisted: If only we would heed their theories, we could find it.