When a group of French protesters invited us to visit, we weren’t exactly expecting this: Singing: “Hey Macarena!” We found the same scene again and again, the Gilets Jaunes, or “Yellow Vests,” occupying traffic circles in the countryside. As others pass by, they stand their ground through the night — singing, cooking, defying the cold and their president. It feels like family here, and they tell us that sense of community is what keeps the movement going. For five straight weeks, protesters have been returning to the streets of Paris. The movement started in opposition to a fuel tax increase and grew into a broader rebellion against President Emmanuel Macron. Last week, Macron bowed to the Yellow Vests’ principal demands: He halted the fuel tax and increased the minimum wage. After that, the demonstrations diminished. But they haven’t stopped. So, we came here to ask: What are their outstanding demands and can this leaderless, grassroots movement deliver them? [chanting] Many told us that to really see what’s driving them here, we needed to leave the city. So we drove south, to the center of the French countryside — the heart of the Yellow Vest movement. It’s here, in these isolated outposts, that people from France’s forgotten corners are finding their voice. They say they’ll do whatever it takes to make themselves heard. We meet people of different ages, professions and views. That inclusiveness is the movement’s strength and its weakness, like when it comes to articulating what they stand for. We hear a host of grievances, but no unified message. Not far from here, we meet another Yellow Vest, Jean-Francois Barnaba, who’s trying to become a public face for the movement. Instead of camping out in the local roundabouts, Barnaba focuses on networking in Paris. And he seeks out the spotlight to promote his message. He warns that if the movement doesn’t evolve into an organized political force, then it can’t survive. But, it’s unclear if he has any following. We met a lot of Gilets Jaunes who are not interested in anything political whatsoever. Many Yellow Vests are skeptical of his motives and any formal leadership. How do you communicate with the politicians without engaging in politics? Marlene is a caregiver. She helped build this outpost after she joined the movement in October. Will you stay through the winter — what exactly are you waiting for? The Yellow Vests are determined, bolstered by the support of their community. But their days may be numbered. The government has already started cracking down, dismantling outposts like this one. Now, they risk returning home with nothing but their grievances.