More troubling is Judis’s embrace of some of the presumptions that underlie the hawkish nationalism he aims to analyze. A small tell is his adoption of aquatic language when discussing immigration: Twice we read of a “flood” of refugees. Elsewhere a “trickle” of migrants becomes “a raging stream.” It’s only a small act of dehumanization, but it is such a common trope of anti-immigrant rhetoric that one would have expected Judis to be on guard against it.

It is striking too that Judis accepts the link that xenophobic nationalists make between immigration and terrorism. True, he is careful to write that this is the perception of anxious voters drawn toward nationalism, but he could surely have devoted a sentence or two to the question of whether that perception has a solid basis in fact. “Some of the terrorist incidents involved refugees,” he writes. That’s true of a handful of cases in Europe, though the vast majority of incidents did not involve refugees. Meanwhile, the number of acts of terror that have been committed by refugees in the United States since 1980 hovers between one and zero, depending on whether you count only fatal acts (zero) or nonfatal ones (one).

Judis handles other (white) nationalist prejudices the same way. “Many Americans blamed the rise of welfare spending … on new Hispanic immigrants and newly empowered blacks using relaxed welfare laws to free ride,” he writes, again without challenge. Later we learn of the “resentment that many in the Euro-American core felt toward African-Americans and Latino immigrants, whom they believed to be benefiting from government programs without paying taxes to support them.” Sure, the verbs here are “blamed” and “believed,” but it would not have impaired Judis’s exercise in understanding to note that black and Latino Americans are of course taxpayers too.

There’s a reason this matters. The fact that many of these hostile perceptions of migrants and minorities are often only loosely grounded in reality is surely central to understanding the current nationalist surge. It tells us that this is as much about fear as it is about reality. Judis himself provides the evidence, noting that the number of illegal immigrants entering the United States peaked in 2007 and has declined ever since. Yet Trump was able to use the issue of supposedly rampant illegal immigration as rocket fuel for his campaign. Fear is the heart of the matter.

In a well-informed survey of the nationalist ascendancy in Europe, Judis again scolds liberals for being oblivious to nationalism’s enduring power. He upbraids the European Union for insufficient sensitivity to the national yearnings of Poland and Hungary — never quite saying whether the E.U.’s error has been in condemning those countries’ drift toward illiberal democracy or in admitting them into the E.U. club in the first place — and admonishes the Clinton and Obama administrations for a similar tin ear toward Russia. But here too he slips from explanation to justification, adopting what sounds a lot like Putin’s narrative. In his telling Russia did not invade or annex Crimea, for example, but merely “reclaimed” it.

Still, Judis would surely wave aside these objections as typical liberal fastidiousness, untuned to the more elemental, raw longings of national identity that liberals need to accommodate fast. On that point, he makes a robust case: Liberals have indeed underestimated for too long the need for a collective sense of belonging, failing to see that any social democratic project involving redistribution or welfare spending requires a basic level of fellow-feeling among citizens. That too is nationalism, and this book is a timely, if flawed, reminder of its importance.