Should you donate to global organizations that address the most immediate and basic needs for huge numbers of people? Or is it best to invest in your local community, where people are no doubt suffering from food and housing insecurity right under your nose? Should you give all of your money to one organization or spread out smaller gifts to more of them? How can you trust an organization to use your money wisely? And how much should you give?

After about 15 years of weighing these questions each December, I still feel mightily confused about the right answers. Which leads me to believe two things: 1) There are no right answers, but there are important, and often neglected, considerations. And 2) We all need to rely on the wisdom of others. (Sounds like good rules for all of life, now that I think about it.)

Drawn from interviews with a wide variety of experts, here are seven worthwhile considerations on end-of-year giving:

Proximity matters.

Many people with whom I spoke said the most critical factor in predicting whether a nonprofit will be successful in its aims is who leads the effort. Those who have experienced the problem that they are trying to solve have hard-earned insights into how to correct it. Further, those who are part of or deeply connected to the communities in which they work are much more likely to design strategies that deliver change. This isn’t to say that a Harvard M.B.A. doesn’t help, but being born and raised in the affected community may matter just as much, if not more. So as you look at organizations you might support, think about the variety and quality of expertise that the leader possesses. Or, as Pamela Shifman, executive director of the NoVo Foundation put it, “Look for community-led organizations who dare to challenge the root causes of injustice — and are run by people from communities closest to the challenges. Investing in them, including women and especially women of color, is the single best way to contribute to lasting change.”

Sometimes your social capital is worth as much as your actual capital.

Haven Ley, who works with Melinda Gates at Pivotal Ventures, reminded me that clicking “donate” is not necessarily the end of the opportunity for small-scale donors: “After you make your year-end gifts, swallow hard and consider sending a cold email to three friends with three reasons why you just gave. This way your gift has immediate leverage and you become a champion of the organizations you love.” Behavioral economists back up Ms. Ley’s recommendation; when we perceive a social norm among our friends, we want to align with it — whether it’s which brand of winter coat we sport or which organization we send our $100 to each December.

Think relationally, not transactionally.

Gabe Kleinman , the director of portfolio services and marketing at Obvious Ventures, also warned against hitting the donate button and calling it a day: “Most consider it a year-end tax deduction exercise and leave it at that. It should instead be the beginning of a relationship, or an extension of an existing one, to be cultivated year-round.” It’s probably not realistic that you will create a significant bond with every organization you donate a few dollars to, but pick one or two and aim for something beyond just a destination for another check. Learn more about the mission and the complexity involved in achieving it. Keep learning. (This will also help you approach your donations with a realistic sense of the real structural challenges that the organization faces.) Show up at events with humility. Keep showing up. “Giving with the spirit of reciprocity shifts the focus of giving from altruism to relationship,” Edgar Villanueva, author of “Decolonizing Wealth,” explained. “It shifts the narrative of who is a ‘giver’ and who is a ‘taker.’”