By the time he was name-checking the players he had worked with at Real Madrid — “young” versions of Cristiano Ronaldo and Angel Di Maria and Gonzalo Higuain — it had taken on the air of a LinkedIn profile. He rounded the whole thing off with a gratuitous mention of Inter, the team he turned into European champions. He was no longer talking about the merits of Jurgen Klopp’s team.

As ever with Mourinho, none of this was intended as praise for a superior opponent; there is, after all, no club Mourinho takes more joy in belittling than Liverpool. No, it was something else, the same thing it has always been: a reminder of all that he has achieved, all that he has won.

And yet, as United’s season drifted, as Mourinho has meticulously constructed a set of alternative facts in which he is not to blame for that failure but the ultimate victim of it, his interminable regurgitation of his own greatness has not served to remind anyone of the heights he once scaled, but acted as proof of how far he has fallen.

Mourinho’s calling card has always been that he is a winner. That is what separates him from those of his peers who talk sanctimoniously about philosophy or who take pleasure in the journey. He has mocked them mercilessly, from that “specialist in failure” jibe at Arsene Wenger to his barbed remarks about Klopp and Mauricio Pochettino in the last year or so.

Winning is what convinced United, at the second time of asking, to invite him in back in 2016. There were misgivings about the chaos that tends to follow in his wake, but United felt it had little choice. Manchester City had appointed Pep Guardiola, Liverpool Klopp, Chelsea Antonio Conte. It needed a guarantee of success. Enter Jose.

He did win, picking up the Europa League and the Carabao Cup in his first season, but those were not the trophies United had envisaged him delivering. Mourinho, for neither the first nor the last time, would be hung by his own words: he had previously insisted he would not celebrate winning the second-tier Europa League. It was beneath him.

How gleefully he clung on to that triumph, though, became a metaphor for his reign. Mourinho spent some $440 million on players, and complained bitterly that Manchester United — among the richest clubs in the world — did not have the finances to compete with its rivals. That may have been true of Manchester City. It was less obviously true of, say, Tottenham, three places above United in the league.