In part, prosecutors’ methods are aimed at wresting confessions from suspects. About 90 percent of indicted suspects in Japan confess to a crime before trial.

“I think it reflects differences in the societies and cultures and the views of criminal justice,” said David Litt, an American professor of law at Keio University in Tokyo. “We have a view in the United States and Anglo-American systems where we have the greatest respect for the autonomy of individuals.”

In Japan, Mr. Litt said, “there is a deference to the authorities and to what they say.”

Mr. Ghosn’s arrest has been the talk of expatriates who see a possible chilling effect on foreigners willing to work in Japan. “If you start throwing people in jail for doing something in the gray area,” said Stephen Givens, an American corporate lawyer here who has been following the case, “everybody lays awake at night worrying that they’re next to hear the police knock on the door.”

Critics who say the Japanese system is biased against defendants have focused on its high conviction rates, but even in the United States, 90 percent of defendants indicted on a charge of a white-collar crime in federal court were found guilty in 2017, according to the most recent Justice Department figures. Japan also is not the only democracy that restricts a defendant’s access to counsel or holds suspects for weeks or months without charges.

German law allows suspects to be held for months if a judge rules that they might flee, obstruct justice or pose a danger to society. Rupert Stadler, the chief executive of Volkswagen’s Audi division, was held for almost five months without bail this year after he was heard on a wiretap making statements that prosecutors interpreted as an attempt to obstruct an investigation into emissions cheating.

The right to have a lawyer present during questioning is not sacrosanct across democratic countries.

In France, defendants can have a lawyer present during interrogations, but the lawyer is not allowed to interrupt — although in practice, they sometimes do, and they are allowed to ask questions when investigators are finished.