Still, you might want to suggest to your grandniece that if she wants these South Asians to be open to hearing her good news, she should probably be open to hearing theirs, too. That way, she can make an effort to understand the traditions of the place she’s going, which you rightly suggest is a good idea. Whether she should honor those traditions as well depends on what they are — and she won’t be able to decide about that if she doesn’t know anything about them. There are, after all, a great many ways of not being a Christian.

I worked in a creative industry that has a close-knit community. An individual in a prominent position within the industry has been accused of sexually assaulting several subordinates. This person is currently under investigation, which some are aware of, to varying degrees. I know and believe many of the victims. Here’s the snag: Not many within the industry are aware of the abuse. The individual is very good at covering their tracks, and the victims, for their own privacy, have avoided taking their details public. As a result, several former co-workers of mine, unaware of the assaults, have been vocal in supporting this person. I am horrified by the thought that these former co-workers and friends are being hoodwinked. Should I tell them that this individual has been accused of multiple sexual assaults? Or, given that I’m not a victim myself and that the information has been only quietly circulated, should I say nothing? If I keep quiet, am I enabling this abuser to continue their pattern of abuse? Name Withheld

If you’re right, this abuser is wrongly gaining the support of your credulous co-workers. They surely wouldn’t be speaking up for this person if they knew what you know. Assuming you’re confident in your assessment of the facts, you should go ahead and tell them what you’ve learned. Otherwise, by allowing this abuser to gain undeserved support, you would indeed be helping to defer the day of reckoning.

I’ve been divorced for 27 years, and my ex-wife died recently. Her pension plan called me trying to locate her. I told them that we’ve had absolutely no contact in 27 years. The pension plan called again and told me that I was her beneficiary. She has a son, but she hadn’t made him her beneficiary. Should I accept the money? Name Withheld



I assume you think your ex-wife would have wanted the money to go to her son, not to you. If so, trying to make it happen would be more respectful of her will than scrupulous attention to what was long ago written on some piece of paper. Explore the most tax-efficient way of getting this money to her son. Where it doesn’t conflict with other moral imperatives, we should try to honor the wishes of the departed, including ex-spouses we haven’t seen in a long time.

I teach journalism at a major state university, and one of my favorite courses is basic editing. I give 10 A.P.-style quizzes in the first half of the course, graded from 0 to 100. Student grades run from very low to 100. I always tell students the grade range when I hand quizzes back, but I exaggerate. If the lowest grade was 45, I tell them the lowest grade was 40. Similarly, if the highest grade was 90, I say it was 95. I do this so the worst-performing students don’t feel quite so bad and the high achievers have something to strive for.

A colleague says I am being dishonest and serving no real purpose, but I see no harm. After all, I do record the accurate grades for everyone. What do you say? Name Withheld

Isn’t one of the principles of basic editing in the field of journalism that truth is better than fiction, however benevolently intended?