Mr. Mosher, a decorated director and producer and the chairman of the theater department at Hunter College, said that he believed Ms. Miller was making a sincere effort to protect the script, and that she offered to allow Mr. Mosher’s choice for George Deever if Ann were played by an actress of a different race than her brother. It was unclear why that option was more acceptable, but in any case, Mr. Mosher said, the disagreement put him in an impossible bind, so he left.

“I was auditioning black actresses, which means the black acting community in New York knew I was doing it,” he said. “I didn’t know what to say to these actors. I’ve decided to hire a white girl? I couldn’t find somebody? What am I supposed to say?”

“It was a kind of breaking faith with a community that I didn’t want to break faith with,” he continued. “I’m afraid it comes rather quickly to ‘you just have the wrong skin color for this part.’ ”

Mr. Mosher’s departure was first reported on Tuesday in The Washington Post. He is being replaced by a Tony-winning director, Jack O’Brien. A spokeswoman for the production company, the Roundabout Theater Company, said that the actor Mr. Mosher wanted for George is still being considered for that role. He has not been publicly identified.

Playwrights have tremendous power in the theater, even in death. An estate can threaten to pull the rights to a show if it disagrees with certain choices, like casting, but Harvey Young, dean of the Boston University College of Fine Arts, said such disputes are rare and tend to be restricted to certain estates. But they happen.

Last year, Edward Albee’s estate refused to allow a theater producer in Oregon to cast a black actor in the role of Nick in “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” In a statement at the time, a spokesman for the estate said, “Mr. Albee himself said on numerous occasions when approached with requests for nontraditional casting in productions of ‘Virginia Woolf’ that a mixed-race marriage between a Caucasian and an African-American would not have gone unacknowledged in conversations in that time and place and under the circumstances in which the play is expressly set by textual references in the 1960s.”