Clever use of language, insightful perspective, engaging commentary — these are the qualities that ushered winning entries through four rounds of judging and a record pool of 1,964 submissions in Our Fourth Annual Student Review Contest. We have published the 10 winning reviews in a separate post, but here is a taste of some of the outstanding student writing you can look forward to reading:

In reviewing the self-titled album “Lil Pump,” David Chmielewski, 16, writes:

That said, while the nutrition label on a jar of mayonnaise may be more clever than this album, it’s still an enjoyable listen. And therein lies the true genius of Lil Pump and other rappers of his ilk; their lyricism may not be amazing, but their tracks are downright fun.

In a review of China Canteen, a restaurant in Rockville, Md., Emily Tian, 17, writes:

We first try a traditional dish, 夫妻肺片, which translates literally to husband-wife-lung-slices. It’s not really lung, the menu coaches us, but the marriage of thinly sliced beef tendon and chili oil, constellated with peanuts, is nevertheless a breathless one.

And in a review of Fujitsu’s “Happy Hacking Keyboard,” Simon Levien, 18, explains:

Fujitsu went with Topre key switches, lightly tactile rubber domes making each key a cushion. Typing is like pleasing pitter-patter, a sound fondly dubbed the Topre “thick-thock.” I’d say it feels like punching a pillow, soft but quick — perfect to add some oomph to your typing speed and stamina.

Students could choose any genre of creative work reviewed by The Times, and they wrote about everything from television shows and concert tours to poetry collections and fashion shows. Congratulations to our 10 winners, 13 runners-up and 32 honorable mentions, all listed below in alphabetical order by last name.

Winners

David Chmielewski, age 16: “An Exercise in Genius Stupidity”

Helen Deng, age 14: “‘The Good Place’: Astute, Heartwarming and Relevant All at Once”

Crystal Foretia, age 17: “Counting Descent: A Post-Mortem on Black America”

Simon Levien, age 18: “The Functional Art at Your Fingertips”

Isabella Levine, age 17: “Dazed and Confused: Millennial Fetishization of Flower Power Forgets the Meaning of Freedom”