“In Afghanistan, we had a really big home, but nothing here,” Haidari said. “We’re starting over, one by one.” After getting him into an apartment, the group helped Haidari enroll in a vocational school to become an electrician, while he worked overnight as a machine operator at a factory for $12 an hour. He didn’t have any background to help him get a start as an electrician. “The only thing I had done was changed a couple of light bulbs,” Haidari said. He’s now an apprentice making $16 an hour. Though two of his younger brothers have also relocated to Rochester, his parents and four of his siblings are still back in Afghanistan. The eldest is stuck in the S.I.V. application backlog. “I feel really bad — he’s been working for the U.S. since 2007,” Haidari said. “It’s not fair. He should be here before me.”

New York is the sixth-largest state for S.I.V. resettlement. That includes 1,632 Afghans, according to the Refugee Admissions Program and the Refugee Processing Center. When a refugee first arrives in the country, the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program provides money toward basic resettlement services — such as transportation and temporary housing — for up to three months, after which responsibility for newly arrived refugees is handed off to the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Refugee Resettlement. For the past decade, the total amount of funding that O.R.R. provides for S.I.V. arrivals has slowly declined, partly because of fewer refugees are being allowed into the United States. In addition, much of the O.R.R.’s funding is being reallocated away from foreign interests, like the S.I.V. program, to domestic needs, like caring for unaccompanied children at the U.S.-Mexico border. Government-funded resettlement organizations like World Relief have increasingly had to rely on nonprofit organizations to help with financial and social assistance programs when the benefits run out. Knowing how tight government benefits are, Ellen Smith tries to get families on a very strict budget right away once they connect with No One Left Behind. “With this budget, I know that they’ll survive their first year: getting a car, getting a job,” she said. “I have to be this taskmaster, because if they don’t stick to it, they won’t make it. They’ll run into financial difficulties.”

Along with job and educational placement, No One Left Behind provides families with first-month’s rent and a security deposit, which typically requires a co-signer: usually one of the more than 250 volunteers Smith has enlisted in Rochester. But finding employers willing to hire Afghans has proved difficult for Smith and those under her care. One potential employer interviewed several Afghans, some of whom had worked with the Army Corps of Engineers as civil engineers in Afghanistan. But the employer never made any offers. “They were concerned about ‘cultural differences,’ ” Smith said, her voice rising. “These guys have been hanging out with soldiers. What are you worried about? That they don’t eat pork? That they pray five times a day?” According to Smith, the company argued that hiring Afghans onto a staff full of military veterans “would be like asking an American World War II soldier to work alongside a Japanese soldier,” Smith said. “That’s a terrible analogy.”

For Sharifi, the late nights at a Wegmans grocery store distribution warehouse and days spent on the phone working as a certified interpreter are starting to pay off. He recently bought his first house, a three-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bathroom home in a quiet suburb south of Rochester. Even if he is invited out to dinner or drinks or to play pool in Rochester, Sharifi prefers the dim light of his sparsely decorated living room and a quiet dinner of beef korma with yellow rice with his family, in the house he has worked hard to provide for his wife and children. After the years of danger he faced working as an interpreter in Afghanistan, he said, “right now I just want to stay home.”

Next door, a house displays a Gold Star flag, typically used to signal that a family member died in combat. People in the neighborhood like Lani Bauer, who moved to the neighborhood in 1973, said that Sharifi and his family have brought a sense of fellowship and camaraderie to the neighborhood that it was missing. They met when Sharifi and his son offered to help Bauer rake the leaves piling up in her yard. “He made a tremendous impression, a very great impression,” Bauer said. “He seemed naturally caring and concerned. That’s something you don’t encounter often. We’re supposed to be more open and welcoming. Isn’t that what the U.S. stands for? Or, at least, that’s what it stood for.”