“In the name of years of friendship I wanted to share with you what I have always been afraid to say,” she wrote. “I hope it’s possible for you to receive this in the spirit that it is meant. With a view toward healing.”

She never heard back.

Now, she said, “I feel a responsibility to speak, but I know it will cost me friendships.” She hates the idea of hurting a mentor, someone who even helped her get a visa to work in the United States by writing a letter on her behalf.

“If Geoffrey had written back and said I’m sorry and offered to work with me to inspire positive change in our industry, it may have transformed both of our lives for the better,” she said. “I despair that I am now in this situation.” And yet, Ms. Stone adds, “I do believe it’s a matter of significance to the public.”

“I also understand it might be confusing and look strange that I maintained a friendship with someone for so long who treated me in a way that made me feel uncomfortable. But there is the reality of professional influence and the reality of a complicated friendship, which ultimately was corroded by a sexual dynamic. But it was still a friendship.”

Ms. Stone remains sympathetic to Mr. Rush, in a way. “ The current system is built around the very famous and talented such that there is a lot of yes. There is not a lot of no. And that can encourage certain behaviors and that can happen incrementally over time to the point where a person may have not heard the word no in a long time. And it might not be their fault,” she said. “We need compassion for that confusion.”

Again and again, she returned in our conversations to the themes of compassion and change.

“The possibility of redemption must always be on the table,” she said. “Not all #MeToo stories are the same. Each dynamic is different. For some, a criminal process is essential. In my case, I’m not interested in punishment. I am looking to change my industry and to work toward healing and growth.”

That healing, however, is only possible when the truth is recognized — when inappropriate behavior is not waved away because the rehearsal room is somehow unique as a “place of play and experiment,” as the director, Mr. Armfield, said on Australia’s “Q and A” television program in October.