On the Senate side, Mr. Schumer’s office has maintained that everything depends on whether the Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, can persuade the president to embrace a deal that Democrats can live with. The offer currently on the table is for a one-year “continuing resolution,” or C.R., that would delay the fight by temporarily funding parts of the government at current levels.

Some Hill Republicans thought the smart move was for Mr. Trump to push for a much shorter, two-week continuing resolution that would kick the battle into early January, allowing Republicans to try to shift some of the blame onto the incoming Democratic House majority. But the president reportedly wasn’t keen on this option.

Early this week, the White House was signaling that the president wasn’t in an accommodating mood. The administration sent the hard-liner Stephen Miller on “Face the Nation” Sunday to declare that, absent wall funding, a shutdown was “ absolutely ” on the table. During his executive time on Monday, Mr. Trump tweeted that a wall was vital for “good Boarder Security.”

By Tuesday, the president had reversed course and begun searching for a way out of the hole he’d dug — but in a way that wouldn’t look like he was caving. His press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said he’d be open to something resembling the bipartisan compromise hammered out by Senate appropriators earlier this year, which included $1.6 billion to fortify existing barriers. The rest of the $5 billion, she said, could be siphoned from other agencies, an idea that prompted immediate blowback from Democrats. Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi also smacked down Mr. McConnell’s offer of a spending plan that contained an extra $1 billion for what they deemed an immigration “slush fund.”

Lawmakers from both parties say some kind of continuing resolution is still the most likely way forward. But what exactly the president would agree to remains foggy, and Ms. Sanders refused to provide any clarity at a press briefing Tuesday afternoon.

Whatever his plan — assuming he has one — the president is clearly looking to wring every ounce of drama he can from this game of chicken. These standoffs jibe neatly with his belief that negotiations, and life in general, are a never-ending battle of nerve. He lives to make the other side blink and is eager to signal that he’ll do whatever it takes to get his way — even when he ultimately winds up capitulating.

Shutdown showdowns are especially fertile ground for Mr. Trump because they pit him against a political establishment that, as he sees it, obstinately refuses to pay proper deference to his genius. He has repeatedly voiced frustration at Congress’s unwillingness to lie back and let him run things as he sees fit. Threatening to throw the government into chaos — to furlough, or in the case of personnel deemed “essential,” withhold paychecks from hundreds of thousands of workers — lets him exact a bit of cathartic payback, reminding lawmakers just how uncomfortable he can make their lives.