“You need to have a relationship with the whale,” says Dawn Noren, a research fishery biologist for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. It would be hazardous to try milking any cetacean in the wild (although scientists have done so with recently deceased specimens). In captivity, though, the animals can be trained to tolerate it. Noren recently conducted a study that required 15 months of regularly milking two killer whale mothers at SeaWorld. She is using those milk samples to better understand how industrial toxins like polychlorinated biphenyls are passed in milk from mothers to calves among a different, endangered subgroup of the species: the so-called Southern Resident killer whales of the Pacific Northwest.

First, train the animal to slide her body up on a platform covered in shallow water. Use rewards such as fish or massagelike rubbing. To locate a killer whale’s teats — which can be hard to find — look for an indented-looking wrinkle on her underbelly; this fold hides her genitals. About three to four inches on either side of that, locate an almost imperceptible slit in her skin over her nipples. “If you’re someone who doesn’t really look at marine mammals all the time, you’re just like, ‘Where are those things?’ ” Noren says.

You’ll need a team of two, because female killer whales reach 20 feet in length and more than 6,000 pounds and can easily crush you. The first person stays near the head to give the command to slide out and stay still. The second dries off the mammary region with a towel to avoid getting salt water in the milk and holds a pump with a suction cup to those slits. The milk will look like heavy cream (it can be up to 40 percent fat, whereas cow’s milk is around 4 percent). Don’t be alarmed if the color varies from pure white to slightly green.

In July, the first Southern Resident killer whale calf to be born in almost three years died shortly after birth. Scientists think the low birth and survival rate could be due, in part, to the chemicals from pesticides, plastics and flame retardants that accumulate in these animals and pass through milk to their offspring. “These little bodies,” Noren says, “are drinking a lot of contaminants.”