It’s also a time when wildlife is awake. “There’s so much activity happening all around you,” said Robyn Mundy, one of the assistant expedition leaders on Aurora Expeditions. “Penguins are feeding their brand-new chicks while predatory birds, raising their own small chicks, are trying to snatch tiny chicks from unsuspecting parents. Humpback whales start arriving in larger numbers. Beaches are bustling with fur seals being weaned.”

And then there’s the sentiment behind the holiday. For many people, New Year’s Eve is a time for reflection and setting intentions for a fresh start. “I think travel, no matter what time of year, is good for escape,” said Joan Watson, a retired accountant who visited Antarctica last year with Wild Earth Travel, a travel company with some ships that also function as research facilities. “But you truly do head into a new year with a bang if it’s spent in Antarctica.”

What to know before you go

With a few exceptions, the only people allowed to spend the night on land work at government research bases. There are a few companies that will fly you there for a few hours, but flights can be unreliable. The minute there’s a threat of bad weather, planes are grounded.

Cruise ships are your best bet. All lines that go to Antarctica (most leaving from southern ports in Chile or Argentina) require passengers to submit medical forms proving they are in good health, mostly because the medical infrastructure can be limited and hard to reach. The closest hospitals can be hours away by plane.

There’s no cellular service on Antarctica and internet access can be spotty. That means you may not be able to make midnight calls to family members or loved ones when the calendar moves to January 1. “The only downside is being away from family,” said Mr. Ward . “We’ll try and stay in touch and send photos when we can.”

How New Year’s ‘works’ at the bottom of the Earth

It can be unsettling to watch the clock in a continent that doesn’t really have an official time zone. (For convenience, McMurdo Station, a United States Antarctic research center, follows New Zealand’s because it is due south of that country.) It’s also strange for some visitors to perform the traditional countdown in broad daylight. “It’s a little funny,” said Jeffrey Donenfeld, who works for a venture capital fund and has spent two New Year’s on Antarctica, “but everything you do here is kind of funny because you’re like, ‘Where the hell are we? What is happening here?’”

Since New Year’s Eve in any part of the world wouldn’t be complete without a party, many ships stage extravagant galas. Ponant opts to have part of its celebration on the ship’s deck, despite the freezing temperatures , so guests can focus on the breathtaking views. On Princess Cruises, travelers party inside with clackers, hats, streamers, Champagne and a balloon drop at midnight.