Bret: History will remember Paul Ryan as the mouse that squealed.

You might say that Ryan was born a generation too late. He should have joined the House at the start of the Reagan era, when his brand of genial, wonky conservatism had an ally in the president. Instead, he made it to the summit of the Republican Party when the rank-and-file turned on everything he claimed to stand for.

That was his political tragedy. His political disgrace is that, when it happened, he hedged his bets. If he ever writes a memoir, it would be interesting to hear his rationalizations. It’s a dirty job but someone has to do it? If not me, the other guys are worse? Hey, Trump might be a raging jerk and textbook racist, but why let something like that get in the way of historic corporate tax reform? I don’t know: Homo sapiens is usually at his most inventive when making excuses for himself.

Gail: I know you aren’t surprised that I was never a Ryan fan. But there is something attractive about the idea of a really committed fiscal conservative who’s willing to risk his or her popularity for the principle of balanced budgets. Instead you’ve got all these guys who howl about giving food stamps to the working poor and then happily ax a couple of trillion dollars from the national revenue.

Is there anybody out there you see replacing the imaginary principled-Paul Ryan shoes?

Bret: You’re asking the question as I’ve been reading a terrific new biography of Winston Churchill by the British historian Andrew Roberts. One of his most incisive points is that Churchill was able to lead Britain in the dark days of 1940 because he had been such a consistent critic of appeasement in the 1930s, when it made him so unpopular. He had credibility when the crisis came. Today, I don’t think there’s a single elected Republican who can say that.

I’ll admit I’ve got a soft spot for Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, because he’s smart and sane and clearly detests Trump. And Nikki Haley, the only person to inhabit, and leave, the Trump administration with honor and reputation intact. I’ve also always liked Mitch Daniels, the former Indiana governor who now leads Purdue. Otherwise, I’m increasingly of the view that, like the proverbial village in Vietnam, the Republican Party needs to be destroyed in order to be saved.

Gail: In the spirit of the holiday season let me be fair and admit I don’t see a whole lot of Winston-Churchill-caliber Democrats at the moment, either. But hope springs eternal.

Bret: Speaking of the holidays, you got a gift: Ryan Zinke resigned! What with Scott Pruitt gone and Jeff Sessions gone and Tom Price gone and Rex Tillerson gone and John Kelly going, it’s beginning to feel like, oh, a season of “The Apprentice.” Now there’s an idea bubbling that Trump himself might choose not to run in 2020, pre-empting defeat by claiming Mission Accomplished. Knowing what you do about the president’s character, do you think this is at all likely?