The documents contained a few intriguing bits like that, but no bombshells. Much of the content felt very workaday. We decided not to write a breaking news story.

The next day, I went back to the city’s website to look at the document again, and the link to that particular file was gone. David asked the city what happened, and a spokeswoman told him it had been taken it down. The city should have checked with its academic partners before posting because the document included proprietary information.

That piqued our interest — what secret information did Amazon get?

Neither of us had downloaded the document initially (lesson learned!), but through my browser history, I could find the web address where the city had uploaded the file. And it still worked. While the city had removed a link to the document from its website, the document itself remained online.

I quickly downloaded it and sent a copy to David for good measure. We talked about what to do with it and decided that while there may not have been news hidden in the details, perhaps the accumulation of data, some proprietary, that Amazon got from New York and other cities could be a story by itself. David had to cover the big City Council hearing on the project, so I took the lead from there.

Reporting usually entails consulting a combination of documents and human sources, and this was no different. I had the document but felt I didn’t have the expertise to fully understand its value, so I called Joe Parilla, a fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution. He’d been following the HQ2 saga for more than a year and researches economic development. What was valuable? What was unique?

We spent almost an hour going through it together. I’d point out a piece of data that caught my eye, and he’d explain if it was readily available or why it could be relevant to a project like HQ2. He kept scrolling down and declaring, “Wow!” I’d laugh and ask what he found so exciting. “We are doing a project right now that, if we had access to Amazon’s database, it would make our life so much easier,” Joe told me.

I interviewed some more people, including an Amazon spokesman who said the company has already used the information it got from the HQ2 process to inform other investment decisions. Providing this type of work force and real estate data to attract employers is exactly what local economic development agencies are designed to do, he argued.