Given all you’ve endured without confiding in your parents, that code is clearly quite powerful in your family. But your job, at this point in the process, isn’t to worry about how your folks will react; it’s to tell the truth about what matters to you most deeply. In rushing ahead to anticipate the fallout, you’re actually inhibiting yourself, Scared. Which, if you think about it, is exactly what your parents want you to do: keep up appearances. So rather than worrying about some unknowable future, put your attention where it belongs: on the stories you need to tell right now.

Cheryl Strayed: Steve’s correct: Your concern at this point should be on writing, not publishing, Scared. Publishing your work is likely a good while off. Writing isn’t. So instead of worrying about what your parents will think of your final draft, focus your energy on writing the best first (and second and third and 10th) draft you can. This means writing truthfully, bravely and compassionately. It means being willing to revise your sentences as well as your perceptions. Write the true story of your actual life and see where that leads you, rather than fretting about it and possibly shutting it down before you’ve truly begun. It isn’t that your anxieties are unwarranted — indeed, I’ve never met a memoirist who didn’t grapple with some version of the question you’ve asked us. It’s that you can’t know what precisely you have to be concerned about until you have the work in hand.

SA: One thing that emerges starkly in your letter is that your parents made you feel you had “failed them in every possible way.” It's only natural that writing about them would offer you a chance to hold them accountable. But I suspect you’ll find it easier to write about your past if you avoid mimicking their harsh judgment and seek, instead, to understand and forgive the ways in which they failed to make you feel loved. Beneath every cruelty is some hidden weakness; beneath every judgment some hidden shame.

In my work, I’ve done best when I seek to hold myself accountable before all others. The central danger should be self-revelation. That doesn’t mean whitewashing the past. On the contrary, it means being ruthlessly and tenderly precise about what happened. Writing grants us permission to be exact about our own lives. (Charles D’Ambrosio’s remarkable essay collection “Loitering” is a master class in that personal precision.) But we should proceed in a spirit of humility, with the awareness that nobody has the franchise on truth, especially when it comes to the complexities and nuances of a troubled family system. Tell the truth, but aim for mercy.

CS: Amen to that, and yet the fact of it is this: Writing about other people is a tricky business. Sometimes no matter how generous or forgiving or self-implicating you are, you have to write something awful about another person because something awful is true. This may be the case for you, Scared, and if so, the only question you must ask yourself is what’s worse — that by writing about people who have made you feel disparaged and erased you enrage them or that you allow them to stop you from writing for fear of their response? The answer to me seems clear. As the great Audre Lorde said, “Your silence will not protect you.” Even when it temporarily feels like it will.