[music] Joffrey is Trump. They have the same level of emotional maturity. Joffrey likes to remind everyone that he’s king. We’re not an absolute monarchy like Westeros is. We’re a constitutional republic. And yet Trump doesn’t seem to know what that means. He thinks the presidency gives him the power to do anything. It’s kind of ironic, ’cause I started writing “Game of Thrones” all the way back in 1991, long before anybody was talking about climate change. But there is – in a very broad sense – there’s a certain parallel there. We’re fighting our own battles. We’re fighting over issues, important issues, mind you – foreign policy, domestic policy, social responsibility, social justice. All of these things are important. But none of them are important if, like, we’re dead and our cities are under the ocean. We spend 10 times as much energy and thought and debate in the media discussing whether or not N.F.L. players should stand for the national anthem than this threat that’s going to destroy our world. Well, I think there are a lot of things going on in the world of Seven Kingdoms and Westeros that could be lessons to any ruler, past or present. The very simple statement is made that the king is about justice, or what is a king for? We don’t have kings. We have presidents and congressmen and all that. But it’s still what it’s about. It’s about serving the people and leaving the country in better shape when you leave office than it was when you took office. No. Of course, I hoped it would be popular. I mean, you write a book or a series of books, and you hope that people will read them and enjoy them and that enough people will buy them so that you can continue to pay your mortgage and write other books. So you’re always hoping for a level of popularity. And I’ve been very fortunate in that regard. My career’s had ups and downs since I sold my first story in 1971. But there have been more ups than downs, and I’ve won awards, and I’ve had books that sold well. But nothing compared to how these books have sold. Pass. I like redheads! I’m married to a redhead. I also like blondes, and brunettes and other people, even women who occasionally shave their head. Many places. Many places. Mostly I’m known for wearing these kind of Greek sailor caps. But I actually have a lot of hats. Some, like the Stetsons and the fedoras and the cowboy hats don’t travel so well with the big brims. Oh, I would probably — the free city of Braavos in Essos would be a cool place to live. Well, we’re presently working on some “Wild Cards” television shows based on the “Wild Cards” series that I’ve been editing for the last 30 years. And that, I hope, will be coming to television in the next year or two. I think the one I’d most like to see would be my historical horror novel “Fevre Dream,” that came out, a vampire novel set on the Mississippi River in the antebellum period. That was probably my best known book before “Game of Thrones.” Read the books.