But I would argue that progressivism is by its very nature black, because you have to be progressive when you fight against the system that is treating you like a second-class citizen. Hopefully our very presence as the leaders of three very strong organizations says to the world, you need to tell the story differently. Now the lion is telling the story.

We’re having a conversation that’s a lot about representation. And we could see a presidential field with multiple African-American candidates and multiple female candidates. What advice would you be giving those people?

YS: Black women matter. We want to see candidates who are engaging with black women, with black people on the ground, making sure that those in these communities are not only heard but are front and center in the work that you plan to do, in your calculus as you think about how you’re going to navigate this country over the course of the campaign. We don’t want you just knocking on the door when you’re running.

Number two, this is the time to be bold and be unapologetic in your agenda. And we want to see that. People who have been on the bubble too long, they use words like bipartisanship. The person down on the ground could care less about how you would get along with the person next to you. They want to know whether you’re going make a change, if you’ve got to do that by hook or by crook, by any means necessary. They want to see change in their real lives.

I was preaching there a little bit, Nina, did you see that?

NT: So it’s no secret, you know, if Bernie Sanders decides to run, who I will support. But amen to everything that Yvette just said. She’s absolutely right — the only people who talk in terms of who’s Republican and who’s Democrat are people here in this Beltway. But the average, everyday person in this country does not have that conversation when they’re talking about how to pay their bills. They’re not talking about those issues when they still have dirty water in Flint.

And in 2020 we have a pivotal opportunity to do some course-correction in the country and hopefully give people a real choice. And I’m going to say to Democrats not to equivocate at all who they are standing for, because we already know who the Republican president is standing for. So this 2020 opportunity, this is real in the field. It’s go time.

MM: Man, I’m getting excited.

What I would say is we’re not going to fall for the “okie dokie,” in the sense that somebody could just signal through cultural signifiers and identity that they’re down with a particular set of politics or a movement. People have to show and prove, not just based on the fact that they might occupy a certain identity. We need to see it in their voting record, in the issues that they champion.