“He is the con artist extraordinaire and the liar par excellence,” Mr. Moffat told The New York Times before going on. “He has no income, but he lives fairly well, entirely by his wits. He gets trapped into being exposed, but he always finds his way out — so on to another level. There are all kinds of variations on that theme throughout the play.”

Reviewing the production for The Times, Mel Gussow hailed Mr. Moffat’s “rich, full portrait,” adding: “His Falstaff seems himself like a character actor: a man of many parts. He is a self-dramatizer, easily able to switch from barroom roisterer to battlefield campaigner (and coward), while always retaining a comic sense of equilibrium and an affectionate regard for Hal, who will, of course, in the subsequent play, abandon him.”

Mr. Moffat also appeared at the Delacorte in 1989 in the title role of Shakespeare’s “Titus Andronicus,” and in 1992 as Touchstone, the fool who outwits one and all, in “As You Like It.”

With his long face and bushy eyebrows, Mr. Moffat was a familiar figure to audiences, even to fans who could not quite remember his name. He was almost never out of work — especially in the 1970s and ′80s, his peak years, when he sometimes packed into his annual schedule four movies, several plays in New York or regional theaters and a half-dozen television programs.

Mr. Moffat won an Obie for his 1983 portrayal of an artist’s aging father in an Off Broadway production of Tina Howe’s “Painting Churches.” He received a Tony Award nomination for best actor in 1967 for performances in two plays presented by the APA-Phoenix Repertory Company: as Lamberto Laudisi in Pirandello’s “Right You Are (if You Think You Are)” and Hjalmar Ekdal, presiding over a household of lies, in Henrik Ibsen’s “The Wild Duck.”

He was also nominated for Drama Desk Awards as an abusive husband and father in Joanna McClellan Glass’s “Play Memory,” on Broadway in 1984, and as Larry Slade, the grubby fellow drinker of the saloon philosopher Hickey (Jason Robards Jr.) in a well-received 1985 Broadway revival of O’Neill’s “The Iceman Cometh.”

On television, Mr. Moffat appeared as Dr. Marcus Polk in the ABC soap opera “One Life to Live” (1968-69), as Rem the android in the CBS science-fiction series “Logan’s Run” (1977-78) and as the Rev. Lars Lundstrom in “The New Land,” the 1974 ABC drama series about Swedish immigrants. He was also seen in episodes of “Mannix,” “Ironside,” “Gunsmoke” and “The Defenders.”