The movie settles into its groove when Wiktor takes up with Zula (a terrifically vivid Joanna Kulig), a singer with a dramatic voice, pillowy lips and visceral ambition fueled by desperation. As she and Wiktor trade looks and steam up the screen, the ensemble comes into shape: Costumes are sewn and dances rehearsed in crisply edited, unfussy scenes. A banner reading “We Welcome Tomorrow” is strung across the school entrance, and the students — under Irena’s hawkish gaze, with Wiktor at the piano — are transformed into culture workers for the Polish People’s Republic. It suggests a fresh start for the students, for the country, and generates a palpable if cautious optimism.

That doesn’t last. A blandly villainous emissary from the government descends, forcing the ensemble to adapt Soviet-style socialist realism. As a representative of the new nation, the group now should have a repertoire that addresses, he explains, “land reform, world peace and threats to it,” an edict that pushes art into the service of propaganda. Pawlikowski doesn’t pad his movie with dialogue, but instead distills this new world order in a few sentences and the image of Irena’s fading smile. When the apparatchik calls for “a strong number about the leader of the world proletariat,” it sounds like a bad joke (or a movie executive note), but it chills the room. It also slowly undoes Wiktor and Zula.

Pawlikowski packs a lot into “Cold War,” often elliptically. Wiktor and Zula soon separate and settle in different countries only to reunite and separate once more. Throughout, their longing for each other — as well as the music they make, together and apart — expresses searching ideas about art and authenticity, national identity and cultural nostalgia. Crucially, when Irena defends the ensemble, saying that its work is based on “authentic folk art,” Wiktor keeps silent. What they’re doing has little relationship to their field recordings, but like the urban audiences raptly watching these folk pastiches — emblems of a vanishing Poland — Irena is clinging to an identity that is nearly lost.

That loss permeates “Cold War” as the decades pass and the scenery changes. Wiktor ends up in Paris, where he plays piano in a jazz club. (Soviet-influenced Poland declared jazz bourgeois, degenerate junk, driving it underground.) In France, Wiktor embraces a caricature of bohemian life, living in a garret that is only somewhat less fanciful than the one that Gene Kelly inhabits in “An American in Paris.” Wiktor is a Polish expat playing African-American music in Paris, pursuing an illusion of freedom as Zula — whom he calls the woman of his life — performs communist kitsch and gradually falls to pieces. (Poor Irena departs the movie after the social realist hammer comes down.)