When I was 5, I stood in my grandparents’ small, pipe-smoke-filled, well-loved apartment in Barcelona on Christmas Day, getting ready to hit a wooden log. The log wore a painted, smiling face and a red hat; its front was propped up on two legs like a sitting dog, and the rest of its body was covered with a checkered blanket. My grandmother had taken it out of storage, as she did every year, and lovingly set it up on the floor, dropping some clementine peels around its base to show that it had been fed. My role, as the youngest child in the family, was to sing to the log while I hit it with a stick, thus prompting it to defecate presents and nougat — for the log was magic, and this is what it did.

But this time around, I just couldn’t believe it was real. “It’s not alive, is it?” I tentatively asked the adults and cousins gathered. They confirmed that it wasn’t, so I went ahead with my understood child duties and whacked the piece of wood. Then I checked underneath the blanket for the surprises its bowel movements yielded — the ones that my grandmother surreptitiously placed there earlier in the week — and we all happily ate the candy.

The log, called the Tió de Nadal, is a staple of Christmastime in many Catalan households and schools. It comes from a rural, pagan practice that probably arose in the Pyrenees in the Middle Ages, though its exact origins are mysterious. (It helps, though, that Catalan culture is rife with a fascination with the scatological — our Nativity scenes even include a defecating man, called the Caganer, who is thought to bring luck by fertilizing the earth, and plenty of our swear words and popular sayings feature that bodily function, for which the main etymological dictionary includes more than 75 derived words.) Tradition has it that the log is placed in the home weeks before Christmas, then kids wrap it up with a blanket and feed it food and water. Each day, they find that the food has disappeared overnight, making it clear that the log has eaten it. Then, for Christmas, they hit it while singing. Like other tree-centered winter rituals, the Tió honors the earth and its abundance. Originally, this was done on the winter solstice, and it symbolized rebirth; the log was then burned and its remains kept in the home for protection. These days, Tiós are often found in local Christmas markets, where they’re sold as a cherished tradition to residents and photographed as a quirky local oddity by tourists.