Edwards proposes culture labs, spaces where creativity is encouraged, supported by a group and guided by mentors. Science should become more open-ended and personally expressive, and its explorations exhibited to the public, whose feedback could help guide development and evolution. Edwards’s own such space is the Artscience: Culture Lab and Café in Cambridge, where people can interact with and consume works-in-progress of his own and his students and collaborators. His work with inhalable technology led Edwards to invent aerated flavors, able to enhance one’s experience of drink or food, and then to create a mechanism that renders these invisible vapors into clouds of smoke, presumably increasing one’s delight in the cocktails on offer at the lab’s bar.

As Edwards looks for solutions in clouds, Adamson would have us look to the ground. Literally. At one point, he offers a riveting tour of a Manhattan street corner starting with asphalt (“hot poured and rolled”) and the manhole covers (“round because a square or rectangular cover turned at the wrong angle would drop right into the hole”) and on up to building awnings (“formed of sheet metal using giant rolling and crimping machines” still fed by hand at an old factory in Brooklyn). Adamson, a scholar at the Yale Center for British Art, wants us to appreciate how the material world — all that implacable, inert stuff we are surrounded by — carries memories and an opportunity for empathy.

The word “smart,” applied to phones and cars, implies that objects that don’t interact with us are “dumb” — both mute and unintelligent. But Adamson finds a banality in the hyper-flexibility of “smart” objects. He tells of one night when his niece slept over at his house and set out a little photo of her dog, Pepper. Why, he asks, when your phone has dozens of such pictures? The point of the phone, she says, isn’t to be a picture of Pepper, “while the point of the picture of Pepper is to be a picture of Pepper.” Physical objects possess richly specific, intrinsic characters, and can be repositories of meaning in ways that a powerful portal to the entire world cannot manage.

Adamson is not so much anti-digital as he is pro-thing — to the point of being materially agnostic. He would like us to be curious and nonjudgmental about all physical objects. Adamson ties himself in knots trying to advocate for the fewer, better things of his own title, because “better things” are often handcrafted, expensive and, therefore, elitist. (William Morris and others have also wrestled with craft’s failure — after industrialization — to be democratic.) Yet as Adamson allows that “beauty” is culturally relative, it follows that “better” and “luxury” are likewise shifting targets. As someone once told me, “luxury is what one doesn’t have enough of.” In fact, Adamson talks of his grandfather growing up on a farm during the Depression without luxuries — having to make do, he says, with hand-split rail fences and homemade ice cream. My very idea of luxury! Creating value around — and a higher price tag on — labor-intensive handcrafted goods creates jobs in the developing world, and helps keep age-old traditions, cultures and communities relevant. Its processes are also usually more ecological than its industrial or technological counterparts. (Plus, the stuff is really beautiful if you ask me.)

“The real test of an object’s worth lies not in its efficiency, novelty or even beauty,” Adamson says, “but in whether it gives us a sense of our shared humanity.” Edwards’s latest innovation allows us to digitally transmit aromas through a small device that plugs into our phone. Thus far, our phones have engaged only our senses of sight and sound, leaving our olfactory organs untapped. Edwards’s hope is to offer the scientifically proven metabolic and calming health benefits of scent to us, on demand, even as we sit stressed out at work. Maybe one day, if widely adopted, this technology might, after the inevitable scented spam and fart pranks dissipate, revolutionize global food and medicine delivery systems. In the meantime, as Adamson might suggest, we should step outside and smell the roses.