INHUMAN RESOURCES

By Pierre Lemaitre

Translated by Sam Gordon

386 pp. Quercus. $26.99.

Image

At the heart of Lemaitre’s twisted workplace thriller is a diffident, unassuming 57-year-old businessman, Alain Delambre, who has been unable to land a job after having been laid off four years ago. In that time he’s cobbled together barely enough money to survive by doing menial work: handing out fliers, sorting packages and cleaning offices. One morning, when a short-fused mailroom supervisor assaults him, Delambre surprises himself by head-butting the man and breaking his nose. “Violence is like drinking or sex,” Delambre thinks afterward. “It’s a process, not an isolated phenomenon. We barely notice it set in. … I was perfectly aware that I was angry, but I never expected it to turn to cold fury.”

He’s fired for misconduct, of course, but before despair can set in he applies, through a headhunter, for an H.R. position at a huge multinational firm. Much to his surprise, he makes it to the final round, only to find that he and the other candidates are to be given a most unusual test: They must administer a realistic hostage situation involving company management — with Arab actors posing as terrorists — and then “assess senior executives subjected to violent and sustained stress.” His wife, Nicole, thinks it’s sick and doesn’t want him to take part. “You’re able to have scruples and morals because you have a job,” he tells her bitterly.

Lemaitre is very good at depicting Delambre’s diminishment by scores of tiny humiliations, each one a sharp little blade slicing down to his very soul. With every passing page, the ordinary man who once was a loving husband and father loses a little more control. It happens so slowly, so inexorably, that before you know it Delambre is buying a real Beretta for the hostage-taking drill. The drama builds to a tense showdown when Lemaitre inexplicably shifts narrators, causing some last-minute lurching. But he powers through it, and you won’t see his final twist coming.