In 1997, the poet Adrienne Rich was selected to receive the National Medal for the Arts. She refused it. “There is no simple formula for the relationship of art to justice,” she wrote to the head of the National Endowment for the Arts in a letter explaining her reasons. “But I do know that art — in my own case the art of poetry — means nothing if it simply decorates the dinner table of power that holds it hostage.”

The relationship of art to justice, and of art to political power, is very much at the center of poetry these days, as Tracy K. Smith (the United States poet laureate) noted in a recent issue of the Book Review dedicated to the subject. Books from that issue dominate this week’s recommended titles, from poets new and established, considering everything from class politics to colonialism to queer identity. Our staff critics round things out with a radio host’s book about running and a legal scholar’s argument that corporations have grown too powerful: proof that poets aren’t the only ones thinking about the role of politics in our lives.

Gregory Cowles

Senior Editor, Books

THE INCOMPLETE BOOK OF RUNNING, by Peter Sagal. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) In this memoir, Sagal, the host of the popular news-based show “Wait Wait … Don’t Tell Me!” on NPR, writes about his life as a runner. He’s a fairly elite one. He’s run 14 marathons, many of them at an eye-popping pace. He guided a blind runner during the 2013 Boston Marathon, passing the finish line only a few minutes before the two pressure-cooker bombs detonated. Our critic, Dwight Garner, writes that the book “fell onto my doorstep at almost exactly the moment I began to go for painful, mist-sucking, aesthetically disastrous but oddly satisfying runs along the Hudson River.” The book “has been a loyal companion. It’s funny, well written (mostly), filled with humility and perpetually on the scan for moments of stray grace.”

THE CURSE OF BIGNESS: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age, by Tim Wu. (Columbia Global Reports, paper, $14.99.) Like Michael Lewis’s “The Fifth Risk,” a recent book that shows the potentially terrifying consequences of something most people don’t spend a lot of time thinking about — government bureaucracy — Wu’s latest is a surprisingly rousing treatment of another presumably boring subject: mergers and acquisitions. “Wu’s point is simple,” our critic Jennifer Szalai writes. “Giant corporations, seeking to protect their advantage, try to turn their outsize economic power into political power. So to break their grip on American democracy, the government needs to break them up in turn. That this proposal might sound outrageously radical to certain ears is, Wu says, just one sign of how unprepared we are for our current moment.”