7. Stay safe

I had no safety issues while traveling in India — I avoided conspicuously displaying money, didn’t walk around too late at night and generally used common sense. But I understand that the experience for female travelers, particularly women traveling alone, might be quite different. Much has been written on the topic, including this National Geographic piece by Neha Dara and this piece by Candace Rardon. I recommend reading personal accounts of women who have traveled to India, or speaking with friends who have gone, if possible, and then making your own assessment. Travel should be an adventure, but it shouldn’t make anyone feel unsafe or compromised.

8. Let’s make a deal

Haggling is an art form. And while some people truly don’t like doing it (I don’t particularly, either), it’s worth trying to get in the spirit of it, especially if you’re planning to do any shopping. In general, decide what the particular thing — a shirt, or a handbag — is worth to you. Set a mental ceiling on what you’re willing to pay. The first price the seller will throw at you, particularly if you’re visibly foreign, will likely be very high. Come back with half of that price, or possibly even less, depending on the circumstances. The seller will dramatically dismiss your reply and come back with a slightly smaller number.

From there, it’s just a question of how much you want the item. Don’t focus on getting to the absolute lowest price a vendor will go — if it’s between paying 500 or 600 rupees for something, don’t make a federal case over that last 100 rupees, which is less than two dollars, and possibly lose the sale. Remember: Objectively, you’re still probably getting a good deal, and that money likely means more to them than it does to you.

9. To eat or not to eat?

I am an unabashed proponent of street food. I love the flavors, the environment and the fact that it is, by its nature, quite frugal. But street food obviously has potential risks. When I traveled to China earlier this year, some street dumplings gave me some major stomach issues. In India, I had better luck — and that’s what it is, really: luck. If you eat enough street food, you’re going to get sick. It’s just a matter of time. For me, the payoff is worth the risk. And if it’s something you’re going to try, there are ways to reduce the chances you’ll get sick.

First, don’t drink the water. This sounds obvious, but it extends to other activities: Be careful when brushing your teeth with tap water (use bottled if possible) or opening your mouth while showering. I also avoid buying drinks with ice on the street — while the fruit juice you order might be perfectly safe, the ice may not.

I’ll pass on fresh produce, unless it’s something that can be peeled. Generally, I look for hot foods, and street stalls that have a lot of turnover. If they’re serving a lot of food, there’s a greater chance the food is fresh. And things like the wonderfully spiced, milky tea, which is kept at a rolling boil at the many street-side tea stands, are likely to be safer than raw items.

Follow NY Times Travel on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. Get weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the world.