Sischy’s philosophical and sociological bent is evident in her long 1989 New Yorker essay about the photographers Minor White and Robert Mapplethorpe. She pegs White, the earlier photographer, as a closeted gay man who resorted to abstraction as a way of “passing.” She treats him with sympathy, acknowledging that he came to prominence in America in the puritanical 1940s and ’50s, that he wasn’t bohemian or rich or worldly. She also points out that his closeted abstractions were the photographs he exhibited, while in his private collection he kept male nudes and portraits of same-sex lovers. In contrast, Mapplethorpe, who emerged in the anything-goes 1970s, explored his various identities “as a woman, as a gangster, as a devilish imp, as a toughie, as nothing special.”

Of course, Mapplethorpe became infamous for his sadomasochistic pictures, but his photographs of male lovers, black and white, nude or dressed, are what he’s remembered for. They’re elegant, shocking, beautiful. Whereas some reactionaries (even gay ones) argue that art or fiction or dance or films by gays were superior when they were indirect, ashamed, coded, Mapplethorpe revealed how rich and original explicitness could be. Sischy was open about her own lesbianism (I remember she once invited me to her country house, which she called “Petticoat Junction,” but I wasn’t free that weekend, alas). She writes very amusingly about the one time she had to buy a skirt for a job; when she left that position she ceremonially drowned it in the Hudson River.

Sischy was inclined toward oddballs, or took an oddball approach to familiar subjects. As Laurie Anderson puts it in her introduction: “She had a great interest and compassion for people in trouble and she knew how to put that into words, such as when she wrote about the English historian who tracked down the photographer Bob Richardson — one of the missing-in-action drug casualties — to an SRO hotel in California. Or for a Jeff Koons piece, she followed the trail of Koons’s missing wife, Cicciolina, to South America, where she was doing her porn shows.” As an editor, she could spend days working with a writer until the piece was striking and targeted. “I hold sacred what goes on between a writer and an editor during the process of creating a work,” she wrote, “and I will never spill what happens in that ‘room of our own.’”