Were you a “Transformers” fan growing up?

My older brother is a racecar driver and mechanic, so my connection to the films was really through him. I remember seeing the first one with him and loving that there was something in it for the both of us — just feeling like this is our little thing.

The film’s producers have said that you were their first choice to play Charlie. Were you immediately on board?

I remember thinking, This is something that sounds incredible on paper and over the phone, but I wanted to dig a little deeper and see what it was all about. And the minute I heard that it was Travis Knight [who directed the Oscar-nominated animated feature “Kubo and the Two Strings”] and he was making a different kind of “Transformers,” I was immediately intrigued. This was a story that made you forget you were in a “Transformers” film [with] this grounded, character-driven story line happening. But there were times where I was like, “How is this going to work?” I’m spending the majority of this film talking to a tennis ball on a stick. I was actually concerned for my well-being and my level of sanity.

In another first, the screenplay was written by a woman, Christina Hodson.

She gave this character a voice that no one else really could have penned. This is an honest, authentic portrayal of what it feels like to be a young girl growing up, no matter what era, where you come from or what your situation is.



So, about that tennis ball …



Yeah, the majority of the time it was a tennis ball on a stick that was about 13½ feet high, the height of the Transformer fully transformed. Other times it was, oh, God, I mean, pieces of tape. At one point they had a Bumblebee head and shoulders on a mount that when any physical contact needed to be made, I could hug that. I did have his eyes to look into, and they would illuminate that gorgeous color blue.

What’s it like playing an action hero?

I had moments where I was like: “This is by far the most badass thing I’ve ever done. This is amazing. This is one for the books.”