COME WITH ME

By Helen Schulman

307 pp. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $26.99.

It’s entirely possible that there are happy, well-adjusted people who never traffic in regret or ponder what their lives would be like if they’d accepted a certain job offer years ago, had married A instead of B or had planned their financial futures differently. If they exist, these living-in-the-moment individuals are not to be found in the Palo Alto of “Come With Me,” Helen Schulman’s strikingly original, compelling and beautifully written sixth novel.

In this Palo Alto, you’ll find people who not only wonder about the other paths they might be following, but have access to technology that helps them explore those alternative lives. This is, don’t forget, Silicon Valley. Using algorithms and the accouterments of virtual reality (headphones and special glasses, for starters), one resident entrepreneur has crafted a way to “visit” the life that might have been. “Math can tell you what would happen if you altered history?” he’s asked. His reply: “Math plus info, sure. At least a fairly good approximation.” (“Info” refers here to the indelible fingerprints left by social media posts and internet searches.) Welcome to your multiverse.

This perhaps suggests that Schulman has left behind the hyper-realism of her two most recent novels for the realms of speculative fiction. Fortunately, that’s true only in a small way. Multiverse theory functions primarily as a thematic framework here, and the headphones and glasses make only a few appearances. In “Come With Me,” Schulman’s central preoccupations continue to be the endless complexities of marriage, midlife and family and the ever-pressing need for people, even in Silicon Valley, to connect. Her writing in this new novel has the humor and wit, the careful eye for social detail and astute character development, that made her previous novel, 2011’s “This Beautiful Life,” a best seller.

Amy and Dan have been married for 20-plus years. They have three sons — Jack, a love-struck teenager, and 8-year-old twins, Miles and Theo, fondly and hilariously referred to as Thing One and Thing Two, or The Things. Dan is an idealistic print journalist, which is to say he’s unemployed and lacking viable options for re-entering the work force. Amy has abandoned her hopes for a benefits-stuffed job at Google and is supporting the family doing P.R. for Invisible E-nk, a start-up founded by Donny, her best friend’s 21-year-old son. Donny is a genius, a Mark Zuckerberg wannabe who’s seen “The Social Network” (“a generational call to arms”) at least a dozen times. He has the audacity of a first-world dictator and an aversion to deodorant, and he’s one of several vivid secondary characters who steal scenes from the sympathetic but less colorful leads.