ALBANY — The New York State Capitol looks like the setting of an old-time horror movie, with blood red turrets, an ink-black roof and enough stone for an emperor’s tomb. Vampires would feel at home here, it seems, as do ghosts, who are sighted wandering its polished corridors.

But the building actually teems with life: The granite-and-marble masterpiece was declared complete in 1899 by then-Gov. Theodore Roosevelt, one in a long line of oversize personalities — and egos — to occupy that post. That includes the Capitol’s current commandant: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat who was elected to a third term last month and whose office sits on the second floor, not far from a portrait of his father, Mario M. Cuomo, who also served as governor.

Being the bureau chief in Albany — long considered one of the nation’s most dysfunctional state capitals, and thus one of The Times’s best beats — sometimes seems more like being a police reporter: In my five years here, there have been multiple convictions of senior state officials on federal corruption charges, including two of Mr. Cuomo’s top aides and the leaders of the State Senate and the State Assembly. (Consider that for a second: the leaders of both houses of the New York Legislature were convicted — twice, after their first convictions were thrown out — on charges of abusing the public trust.) There have also been more sordid scandals: lawmakers censured for sexual harassment and groping staff members, for a sham marriage, for trying to bilk the government out of hurricane relief funds. You could set a true-life crime show here, but producers would call it too far-fetched.

Any script about Albany, of course, would have Mr. Cuomo at its heart. A famous micromanager with a taste for political combat, Mr. Cuomo is an oversize presence in the capital, and seems to be here for the long haul. He won a third term decisively in November, and has sworn again and again that he’s not running for president. (Notwithstanding recent reports of him talking to Iowa Democrats.)