The fallout has been significant with the resignation of Lou Anna K. Simon, the Michigan State president, and the move by the United States Olympic Committee to initiate decertification of U.S.A. Gymnastics and build a new federation.

Far from the United States, the Afghan government is investigating allegations, reported by The Guardian, that players on Afghanistan’s women’s soccer team were abused sexually and physically by male coaches and officials.

The challenge now is to create long-term safeguards.

“I would love to believe there will never be a bad guy, but there are going to be bad guys and bad girls,” said Sarah Hirshland, the new chief executive of the United States Olympic Committee. “And we have to make sure that when there are, we very quickly have systems in place to find them, weed them out and get rid of them.”

Hirshland, appointed in July, is a symbol of systemic change as the first noninterim female chief executive at the committee. A former golf executive who has yet to attend an Olympic Games, her appointment was linked to the Nassar fallout, reflecting the need to bring in a leader from outside the Olympic world to scrutinize and reform the culture (and the organization’s image).

She was not alone in that regard.

The Dallas Mavericks of the N.B.A. brought in Cynthia Marshall as chief executive after a Sports Illustrated article revealed sexual harassment and misconduct in the team’s front office. Until Marshall’s arrival, the Mavericks had no women in executive positions, but Marshall has subsequently hired and promoted several, bringing the gender balance close to 50 percent.

Reaching that figure remains more goal than reality for many sports organizations. But the number of high-profile female leaders in sports is creeping upward, and none is more prominent than Susanna Dinnage, who last month was named to replace Richard Scudamore as chief executive of the Premier League, the leading men’s domestic soccer league and one of the world’s top sports properties.