Before last year, I had never thought about what happens when the bodies of soldiers killed overseas are returned to the United States. On Oct. 16, 2017, I experienced it firsthand — as I escorted my young sons through an airport to collect their father’s remains.

My husband, Staff Sgt. Bryan Black, and his team were ambushed outside the village of Tongo Tongo, Niger, 12 days earlier. Islamic State militants who had been tracking the unit’s movements shot and killed Bryan along with three other American soldiers. My husband’s remains were transported to Dover Air Force Base for processing within 24 hours of the ambush; it took two weeks after that for his body to be transferred to North Carolina, where we live. It wasn’t until I saw the coffin come out of the commercial jet’s cargo hold that his death finally became real for me.

At 11 a.m., the casualty-assistance officer assigned to our family by the Army picked up me and my two boys, ages 9 and 11, my in-laws and several family members for the hourlong drive to Raleigh Durham International Airport. The officer was the one who had been with us since we’d been notified of Bryan’s death. At the airport, three representatives from the U.S.O., a charity that provides services to military members and their families, met us at the curb and escorted us through security and across the airport to a private room inside the U.S.O. lounge. After a short briefing on the day’s plan, we were guided to the gate to meet Bryan’s plane.

I took my boys’ hands as we rode down the glass-walled elevator and whispered to them that everything would be O.K. I kept my eyes straight ahead and tried hard to walk purposefully — to keep from panicking or crying as we stepped into the crowd of travelers. My children followed my lead until we reached the gate. The casualty-assistance officer called our attention to the 22 soldiers who marched down the main thoroughfare of the airport walkway making their way toward us. Curious travelers stopped and stared at the procession of soldiers in their dress blues — the ceremony’s purpose dawning on the onlookers slowly. Some people snapped to attention to show us respect; some even saluted. Others ducked their heads, as though they were caught staring at a car wreck, then they scurried off or turned their backs.