Claire is another story.

Claire is always interesting when separated from Jamie — sometimes more interesting than in moments when their relationship tends to make for consensus. (It’s one thing for Claire to assure Jamie she is fine with homesteading, and another to watch her contentedly feeding animals and knitting in the cabin.) She also makes her own friends among the Cherokee, picking herbs and exchanging vocabulary with Adawehi. It’s a quiet, genuine moment, which suggests that Jamie and Claire have worked to be good neighbors.

That changes after Herr Mueller (Urs Rechn), a neighboring German homesteader, pulls his gun on Cherokee men who have come to draw water from the stream outside his cabin, and Claire intervenes. The Muellers are set up as foils to Claire and Jamie: superstitious, bigoted, violent. Unfortunately, their position in the story doesn’t do much besides make Claire look good. When Tawodi (Will Strongheart) declares, “Water belongs to no one,” Claire gets the convenient heroism of agreeing, for all the good it does the Cherokee to hear “You’re right, but he doesn’t see it that way.”

There’s a lot of promising tension here. Claire and Jamie’s good intentions don’t go any farther than their front yard and could endanger them among their white neighbors. The Cherokee are uninterested in capitulating to interlopers’ preferences. Claire’s oaths as a doctor compel her to help anyone in need, and with a contagious disease, things could have gotten complicated in a hurry. Soon Claire is alone in the house and Mueller is said to be on the rampage and coming to find her. And he is happy to kill anyone he thinks is in his way.

Including Adawehi, whose scalp he brings to Claire as proof that he has vanquished the “witch” who gave his family the measles. (“They are supposed to die of the pox,” Mueller says, “not us!”) We haven’t been permitted to know Adawehi enough outside her relationship with Claire to mourn her. So once more, a character of color has died — violently — to remind us that people were racist, and to make Claire sad.

Given Mueller’s armed threats and his racism and his murder of Adawehi, some self-defense seems called for; it is hard to condemn the Cherokee who burn the Mueller cabin and kill him and his wife. Still, it’s an eye-for-an-eye quagmire — no doubt someone else will. This episode has given us what the last few were missing: a reminder that settling was often a violent business, and that some problems not even Jamie and Claire can solve.