Confusion over Mr. Trump’s trade approach, including whether he has actually reached a trade truce with China and overall concerns about how his tariffs could hurt economic growth, helped contribute to a 3 percent sell-off on Wall Street on Tuesday.

Since General Motors’ announcement last month that it would idle five factories in North America, the White House, already juggling complex and uncertain trade negotiations with China, Mexico and Canada, has shown a diminishing interest in escalating trade tensions with Europe, according to several senior administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss internal White House strategy.

The president is also concerned that if tariffs are imposed, German carmakers may retaliate by cutting jobs at their existing American plants, many of which are in states he won in the 2016 election. Several of his top advisers, including Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, have urged him to back off his tariff threat.

Yet Mr. Trump could ultimately call for the levies if he does not think Europe is negotiating a trade deal in good faith.

The Commerce Department has been working on a report that could provide the legal basis for such tariffs, and the administration would most likely challenge the automakers to provide reasons they should not be imposed, said Peter Chase, a former American diplomat and a senior fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States in Brussels.

“They will say, ‘What can we do to achieve the goals the president has without going down this road?’” Mr. Chase said.

BMW, Daimler and Volkswagen already build hundreds of thousands of cars in Alabama, South Carolina and Tennessee. In recent weeks, the companies have dangled the prospect of additional investments. BMW has said it could start building motors in the United States instead of importing them from Germany. Volkswagen has indicated it might manufacture electric cars in the United States.