What new things did you learn this year — in or out of school? How has this knowledge affected your life?

In “What We Learned in 2018,” The New York Times compiled the year’s most unforgettable events and findings in science, medicine and health. Included in the list are: gene editing has its dangers, natural wonders sometimes hide in plain sight, plants aren’t just sitting there, how genetic genealogy can help solve crime, killer whales are in danger and plastics may not be the future.

For instance, The Times learned that plants can be more complicated than they appear:

One team of scientists visualized the threat communication systems within plants that help them fight back when under attack. Others presented the tantalizing suggestion of plant consciousness using anesthetic gas. And in rain forests, some plants’ fruits seem to send careful messages to specific animals, in order to spread their seeds.

And we learned about the genetic legacy of our early human relatives:

Tens of thousands of years ago, humans interbred with Neanderthals, and anyone of Eurasian ancestry now carries some Neanderthal genes. That interbreeding exposed young Homo sapiens to new viruses related to influenza, herpes and H.I.V., but also may have given humans immunities to these diseases that persist to this day.

We also learned about the ethical perils of a new crime-fighting tool:

Authorities in California announced in April that they had made an arrest in the decades-old Golden State Killer case. Suddenly it became difficult to keep up with all the cold cases being cracked by uploading crime scene DNA evidence to GEDmatch, a genealogy website. The two unlikely genetic entrepreneurs who created the site have become heroes to some, but their unconventional privacy policy is raising concerns. Even if a person has never taken a DNA test, his or her DNA could now be identified on GEDmatch through cousins’ DNA.

Students, read the entire article, then tell us:

— What is something new you learned this year — in or out of school? How did you learn it? Was a teacher or an adult involved? Or did you discover it yourself? How has this knowledge affected your life? How might it be useful to you in the future?

— Which of the scientific developments in the article do you think were the most interesting? Which do you think were most important and why? Are there any other scientific events or findings that you have read or heard about this year that you think should be added to this list?

— What did you learn from The New York Times in 2018? Tell us the most interesting things you discovered from our journalism this year. (This compilation of the most-read Times articles might help you).