He has also testified about his own criminal history, which started during his childhood in Chicago’s Little Village, a mostly Hispanic neighborhood. At 7, he recalled, he and his twin brother, Margarito, acted as English to Spanish translators for their father during drug deals, and were also tasked with loading and unloading carloads of cocaine.

By age 20, the brothers were among the city’s biggest wholesale drug dealers — a position, Mr. Flores said, that attracted the attention of one of Mr. Guzmán’s representatives in the Sinaloa drug cartel. With its network of rail yards, airports, waterways and interstates, Chicago has long been a focal point of the cartel’s operations. It is centrally located or, as Mr. Flores put it Tuesday, “halfway to everywhere.”

The man from Sinaloa, Lupe Ledesma, hired the brothers as his distributors and by the early 2000s, Mr. Flores said, they had already moved up to 20 tons of the cartel’s product through several American cities. When the federal authorities indicted the twins in 2004 on drug trafficking charges in Wisconsin, they fled together as fugitives to Mexico.

There, Mr. Flores told the jurors, they continued selling drugs and were ultimately spotted by someone else: Ismael Zambada García, Mr. Guzmán’s partner. Summoning the brothers to a meeting, Mr. Zambada praised them for the profits they were earning. He wished they could earn more, Mr. Flores added, quoting him as saying: “Imagine if you guys were triplets.”

Shortly after that encounter, Mr. Flores said, he met Mr. Guzmán in his mountaintop hide-out. While the men eventually worked well together, there was at first a cultural divide. Mr. Flores recalled how he showed up for the meeting wearing jean shorts and a T-shirt. The kingpin disapproved, telling him, “With all that money, you couldn’t afford the rest of the pants?”

The next three years went by in a flurry of drug deals and profits. Mr. Flores and his brother expanded to Detroit, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. They set up warehouses in cities across the country — always, he explained, in “the best neighborhoods” where the police weren’t likely to look.

But in 2008 everything changed, he said. First, Mr. Guzmán went to war with one of his former partners, Arturo Beltrán Leyva, and the cartel chieftains demanded the brothers’ loyalty. Then, Mr. Flores’s wife got pregnant and he began to think about their future — or lack of one, he said.