In light of the success of “Clueless” as a movie, in light of the fact that it seemed that every film more than 10 years old was now being adapted into a Broadway show — and yes, in light of how much its creator still wanted to spend time with the material — Heckerling pursued a stage version. By the time of this rehearsal, Heckerling had been trying to mount this thing for years. It was first in workshops with Barry and Fran Weissler (“Chicago”), who told Heckerling they wanted her to be involved, she said, but then only invited her to readings. Their version of “Clueless” wasn’t exactly in line with her vision. Their team wanted the musical to start with the daily arrival of the hired help — housekeepers, gardeners, etc.— into Beverly Hills on city buses. The story of this privileged world would be seen through their eyes.

But “Clueless” isn’t a story about class. It’s a fantasy, written by someone who grew up without a lot of money in New York and who always wondered what life would be like in a place where things seemed easy, where it was always summer and a girl could be loved and accepted and keep a positive outlook. “That’s like, ‘What’s it like to live in a Fred Astaire movie?’” she said. “You don’t go, ‘There’s a Depression outside.’”

The Weisslers didn’t renew their option on “Clueless,” and Heckerling had been introduced to a producer from the Dodgers, the producers behind hits like “Jersey Boys” and “Matilda the Musical,” who would help get this iteration of “Clueless” off the ground. They attached Kristin Hanggi and Kelly Devine, the director and choreographer team behind hits like “Rock of Ages.” Scott Elliott, the founding artistic director of New Group, had been at a few table reads and had kept an eye on the production. Eventually, “Clueless, The Musical” had a home.

They hired their Cher: Cameron, who starred in “Liv and Maddie” and “Descendants” and who looks like an anime drawing under 72 Instagram filters. They cast their Josh, their Dionne, their Murray. Slowly, as Heckerling watched younger movies become musical hits (like “Mean Girls”), “Clueless” began to find its way. It was finally happening — more than 20 years since “Clueless” hit movie theaters, it was finally happening. (The show, now in previews, opens on Dec. 11 at the Pershing Square Signature Center, in a New Group production.)

Which is great — it is — but it’s also a little nuts. Heckerling was a pioneer as a female director of touchstone ’80s comedies like “Fast Times at Ridgemont High,” “National Lampoon’s European Vacation” and “Look Who’s Talking.” She was a woman who was somehow able to join a fraternity and thrive in it. And yet, lately, she’s been relegated to directing episodes of other people’s TV shows. But now, she is re-emerging, with a new show made from an old movie — which is great news, truly. But it all raises the question of where she’s been and why her career seemed to halt after “Clueless.” Maybe “Clueless” was her masterpiece and she had nothing to say after it. Or maybe she got tired of dealing with all the ways that trying to have creative output can diminish you in the world. The complicated answer is that she doesn’t quite know.