The bill would not only maintain funding for the departments and agencies covered by seven spending bills that have not passed, but it would also extend a number of programs set to expire, including the Violence Against Women Act, the National Flood Insurance Program and critical Medicaid provisions.

Avoiding a partial government shutdown was a welcome prospect for lawmakers, particularly given the holiday timing and the number of lawmakers who await retirement at the end of the session or have quietly left after their November defeats. More than 70 members from both parties were missing from votes in the House on Wednesday night.

Some lawmakers, anticipating quick consideration of the measure amid a year-end rush to get out of Washington before Christmas, feverishly tried to use the measure’s momentum to push through long-held goals, including disaster relief for farmers in the Southeast after a series of storms this year.

A bipartisan group of Western senators were further aggrieved when, after a delay, a vote on a lands package was blocked, prompting a fiery round of speeches on the floor. The package carried a handful of bills that include the permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund and put in place protections for the gateway to at Yellowstone National Park and the headwaters of the Yellowstone River.

“Time to get it done,” said Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington and a sponsor of a bill that would permanently reauthorize the conservation fund. “The West wants to be heard.”

Senate leadership later told the group — which includes Montana’s senators, Jon Tester and Steve Daines, a Democrat and a Republican — that a vote on the package would be one of the first on the floor in January, Mr. Schumer and Mr. Tester confirmed.

And even though a path to funding had been made clear for the first time in days and did not include billions of dollars in wall funding, Democrats were also dissatisfied with the likely outcome and the prospect of having to confront the funding issue again only two months into their majority.