To avoid this outcome, the United States must keep the Turks out by addressing their concern about a Kurdistan Workers’ Party-affiliated military entity on their border, while guaranteeing Kurdish safety. The only way this can be achieved is by handing control of the area to a third party with the capacity to deliver security to both Turks and Kurds. At this stage, there is just one candidate for this role: the Assad regime.

A decision to do this would no doubt be vexed. Turkish objections, owing to President Recip Tayyip Erdogan’s deep animosity toward President Bashar al-Assad of Syria and his mistrust in the United States, would be just one set of obstacles. Kurdish insistence on autonomy would be yet another.

Still, this appears to be the only real possibility for stability. But for it to happen, the United States must do three things:

First, persuade the Kurds to get rid of non-Syrian operatives, while shrinking their military capacity, and accept that they are not going to get the same deal that their Iraqi cousins have won from Baghdad. The imminence of an American withdrawal, combined with Mr. Erdogan’s suggestions that he could soon invade the Kurdish regions of Syria, will probably convince the Kurds that they have little choice. But the Syrian regime could provide meaningful incentives, such as integrating the Kurdish forces into Damascus’ chain of command and allowing a Kurdish political party to participate in Syrian elections and applying the existing law on decentralization to the Kurdish zone.

Second, convince the Turks that after broken promises and miscommunication with Washington, the United States can still persuade the Kurds to take steps to assuage Turkey’s concerns about armed Kurds on its border with Syria. Despite their easy victory over Kurds in the battle of Afrin in March, the Turks are justifiably concerned about the casualties they would take in an effort to control a much bigger area. This fear should be used to encourage Turkish restraint.

Then, either directly or through the United Nations, the United States will have to talk to the Assad regime on the premise that a restoration of Syrian state authority in northeast Syria, including the re-entry of Syrian government forces, is required to stabilize that part of the country over the long term. To this end, the United States will have to deal with the Russians as well, so there is a coordinated approach to both the Turks and the Syrian regime. There are quite a few moving parts to this plan, and all the players will need to be on the same page.

This would require deft diplomacy. Unfortunately, at the moment the United States appears incapable of that. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo seems more focused on bluster, and the administration’s special representative for Syria engagement appears to have little clue regarding White House policy. But if the administration fails to step up, it will have left the Syrian people far worse off than they already are.

Steven Simon, a visiting professor of history at Amherst, served on the National Security Council in the Clinton and Obama administrations and at the State Department.