“I see my generals — those generals are going to keep us so safe. These are central casting — if I’m doing a movie, I pick you, general.” President Trump likes to talk about America’s generals. “Remember the old days of General MacArthur and General Patton and these great generals.” Although, he’s been less kind to modern-day generals. “I know more about ISIS than the generals do, believe me. And I can just see the great — as an example — Gen. George Patton spinning in his grave. General MacArthur is spinning in his grave.” But since his election, Trump has put four of them in senior positions, the most of any modern-day president. “They say he’s the closest thing to Gen. George Patton that we have, and it’s about time. It’s about time.” Now, there’s none left. So, what happened? First to go was Michael Flynn, a retired Army general. He was an early and vocal supporter of Trump. “He will lead from the front, not from behind.” That loyalty paid off. But soon, it came out that Flynn misled White House officials about his contact with Russia’s ambassador. He was forced to resign. Next to go was an active-duty Army general, H.R. McMaster, who replaced Flynn. McMaster pushed for a bigger U.S. military commitment in Afghanistan and Syria. He was also a fierce critic of Vladimir Putin. “We might show him the beaches of Normandy, where lingering craters and bullet holes demonstrate the West’s will to sacrifice.” Trump, on the other hand, had opposing views on all of the above, and the two never developed a personal chemistry. John Kelly, one of the two former Marine Corps generals, was the next to go. He was briefly Homeland Security secretary, then Trump made him chief of staff. “He will do a spectacular job, I have no doubt.” And Kelly was given credit for bringing discipline to the West Wing. But Trump grew wary of Kelly’s strict management style — “As questions persist over Kelly’s defense of Porter —” and of Kelly’s part in several controversies. For his part, Kelly was reported to frequently call the president an “idiot.” Although, he’s denied this. Now, James Mattis is the last general to leave the cabinet. Early on, he seemed to elicit the most enthusiasm for Trump. “General ‘Mad Dog’ Mattis.” Mattis has generally kept a low profile, but in recent months his relationship with Trump is said to have soured. They butted heads on a range of issues: NATO policy, North Korea and finally, withdrawing U.S. troops from Syria. In his resignation letter, the retired Marine general cited a difference of views with Trump. With Mattis gone, the White House will be without one of the few officials viewed as able to keep an unpredictable president in check.