What difference can one ordinary person make?

In “Making a Difference in 2018,” Tina Rosenberg profiles six people who are trying to make things better in the United States, despite deep divisions and fears in the country. The article begins with the story of Katie Fahey, who helped restore power to the people of her state:

Last month, Michigan voters overwhelmingly approved a ballot measure that changed the state Constitution. It created a commission of independent citizens to draw the lines of congressional districts, taking the job away from politicians.

This result is remarkable. Even more remarkable is how it happened. The founder and leader of Voters Not Politicians is Katie Fahey, a Michigan woman in her 20s with no political experience. She wrote on Facebook that she wanted to end gerrymandering. Thousands of volunteers responded. They collected hundreds of thousands of signatures to put the measure onto the ballot, and then went door to door to ask people to vote for it. When the campaign needed money, volunteers asked their family and friends to chip in.

Ms. Fahey kept waiting for someone who knew what they were doing to come along and tell her to run along now, but no one did.

In the last few months, Voters Not Politicians became more professional. By then, its citizen army had made its message of citizen power even more persuasive.

But being amateurs also had drawbacks. “The system wasn’t built for civilians,” Ms. Fahey said. Most campaigns, for example, have experts file the required reports to the state. Voters Not Politicians had to learn to do it itself.

Voters Not Politicians now gets calls from people all over who want to fight gerrymandering or want to organize around other issues. “Who’s helping the regular person who wants a dog park in their community?” Ms. Fahey asked. “We challenged the assumption you have to wait for someone else, or look to a politician to fix a problem. Some 27-year-old can get a lot of people excited about gerrymandering and amend the constitution.”