‘War and Peace in Liberia’

Through Jan. 13. Bronx Documentary Center, 364 East 151st Street, Bronx; 718-993-3512; bronxdoc.org.

The second civil war in Liberia , from 1999 to 2003, turned Africa’s oldest independent nation into a charnel house — where drugged child soldiers killed and raped members of their own communities, and where both rebel and government forces fired on unarmed civilians. Our visual memories of this appalling conflict come largely from two war photographers, Tim Hetherington of Britain and Chris Hondros of the United States, who were on either side of the front lines in 2003. Dozens of their photographs — which helped provoke international pressure to end the conflict — are on view at the Bronx Documentary Center.

Hetherington, who was embedded with the rebels, shot stately photographs in square format. One young soldier sits before an amaranth wall, ring-clad fingers resting on his hair; by his elbow is a grenade, perched as naturally as an apple on a teacher’s desk. Though he photographed soldiers, civilians and peacekeepers, Hetherington pictured the war’s effects more indirectly — through a blasted bathroom wall or the crumbling facade of the Bank of Liberia.

Hondros, whose prints are rectangular, favored longer sightlines and sharper diagonals. On a bridge outside the capital Monrovia, he captured a soldier, topless, his rocket launcher slung behind him as he jumps for joy. A child wearing a necktie and tank top, seemingly no older than 10, struggles to support the weight of his rifle.

In 2011, while documenting Libya’s revolution, Hetherington and Hondros were killed during a mortar attack by soldiers loyal to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. Hetherington was 40, Hondros was 41. This intense show is a memorial for men who believed, and perhaps proved in Liberia, that a few precise images could influence the international community. Yet it also feels like a eulogy for the last moment before digital circulation narrowed the impact of even the most urgent imagery — and before Syria’s civil war, among the most photographed and filmed conflicts in human history, disabused us of the pretension that images will make us act. JASON FARAGO