Looking back, moving forward: Our editors picked the compelling images that capture the year.

Ilana Panich-Linsman for The New York Times

Ilana Panich-Linsman for The New York Times

Bryan Denton for The New York Times

Bryan Denton for The New York Times

Scroll left and right to explore the image

NEWS PHOTOGRAPHY is often meant to be consumed instantly, on paper, on our screens, in endless scrolling feeds. It tells us what the world looks like right at a given moment. But it can lose much of its power that way — the power to seize us, to shake us awake, to interrupt the everyday. There is always a new image. Scenes of the present become instantly the past.

Put together at the end of a year, though, their essence is restored. The images here compel us to look closely, look twice, look slowly. And in doing so, we can ask ourselves: How do we react to what we see — not only in the moment we look at it, but in our daily lives? How does that reaction prepare us for the way we will face the future?

The word “empathy” has been tossed around a lot lately, which probably signals its actual absence in so many spheres of human interaction. It is said of a particular book that it is written with “great empathy,” or that a certain film is good because it “teaches empathy.” Perhaps our standards should be higher. Empathy is the minimum, but we need to step into the world with more than that. What about art teaching us indignation? What about rage and historical responsibility?

At first glance, these photographs are a retrospective of the year we are about to leave behind. If many of them seem, on closer inspection, like a recurring nightmare, it’s because yes, they are. Most of the crises, conflicts and natural disasters they capture aren’t new, but are ones dragged on from previous years, or are otherwise a resurfacing of symptoms of social ailments that have gone unattended for too long. If we look even more closely, we realize these are in fact photographs about the future.

There is the disturbingly sad gaze of a baby girl being embraced by her mother, a victim of the opioid crisis. How can a baby’s eyes look this sad? It’s as if she were staring into a future that most of us dare not imagine. Every 15 minutes in the United States, a baby is born with neonatal abstinence syndrome. Imagine their future.

There are young palms raised high during a student protest, shortly after the Parkland school shooting. On each palm is a word, and together these words compose the shattering, almost stuttered sentence: again / don’t / shoot/ don’t /shoot / never. How do we articulate that future?

There is the skyward-facing Ja’Mal Green standing next to Jedidiah Brown, Chicago activists who have fought mass incarceration and police brutality in African-American communities. There are approximately two million people in prison in the United States, the majority of them black and brown. An African-American male is more likely to go to prison than to college. Let’s change that future.

We see the cardboard cutouts of Mark Zuckerberg wearing a T-shirt that reads “Fix Fakebook,” as part of an effort to denounce the role the company may have played in spreading disinformation and affecting electoral results around the world — most recently, the election of a far-right leader in Brazil. Let’s tell that future: We’re watching you, too.

It is impossible to look at the searing image of Amal Hussain, 7, photographed at a hospital in northern Yemen, and not think of the future she will not have. She died in November. What is the future for other children in Yemen?

What many of these pictures have in common is not only the tragedies they depict, but also the fact that underlies those tragedies, which is that while some die or are killed, while some fall prey to addiction, while their countries fall into the hands of authoritarians, others may profit. Pharmaceutical companies profit, arms companies profit, Facebook profits. We see here the dispossession that enables the few — all those suits and ties — to silence the many.

But then there is the woman from Central America, holding her little boy’s hand. She’s wearing a T-shirt that reads “Femme Power.” She has just been released from a detention center at the border, during the summer of family separations. The image begs us not only to think about how asylum seekers are treated in this country, but also to consider how undocumented immigrants can be locked into a narrative that diminishes their agency, one that reduces their fierceness and dignity to victimhood, at best. Look at this woman’s eyes, see how she stares at the world in front of her. Look at yourself, looking. Then look at her gaze again. And remember it, because she is the future. — Valeria Luiselli

Ms. Luiselli is the author of “Tell Me How It Ends: An Essay in 40 Questions” and the forthcoming novel “Lost Children Archive.”

January A second year of the Trump presidency. Gymnasts speak out. Washington, Jan. 9 President Trump meeting with members of the Senate in the White House. Doug Mills/The New York Times Gekhy, outside Grozny, Russia, Jan. 30 Hava Beitermurzayeva with her son. She left Russia in 2015 to marry an Islamic State soldier she met online. When she was discovered by Russian authorities in a camp in Syria, she was sent back home. Sergey Ponomarev for The New York Times New York, Jan. 5 No shirt, no problem for Gary Atlas in Brooklyn, running on the Coney Island boardwalk on a day when the high temperature was 16 degrees. Todd Heisler/The New York Times Melbourne, Australia, Jan. 22 The tennis player Naomi Osaka of Japan at the Australian Open. David Gray/Reuters Washington, Jan. 9 President Trump meeting with members of the Senate in the White House. Doug Mills/The New York Times Near Furnes, Norway, Jan. 13 The cross-country skier Oddvar Bra, who became a legend in Norway for tying for first despite breaking a pole during the 1982 world championships. Andrew Testa for The New York Times Lansing, Mich., Jan. 19 The Olympic gymnast Aly Raisman was one of over 150 women who spoke at the sentencing hearing of Dr. Lawrence Nassar for sexual assault. Brendan McDermid/Reuters Patagonia National Park, Chile, Jan. 29 A guanaco herd in a new park. A conservation group has helped to expand the country’s national parklands by nearly 40 percent. Meridith Kohut for The New York Times Rhode Island, Jan. 10 Mother and daughter. The woman struggled with opioid addiction before and during her pregnancy. Alec Soth/Magnum, for The New York Times

February An Iraqi city moves forward. A gunman takes 17 lives at a Florida high school. Mosul, Iraq, Feb. 19 Volunteers collecting unclaimed bodies, most thought to be of Islamic State fighters killed in the battle that forced the group from the city. Ivor Prickett for The New York Times Parkland, Fla., Feb. 14 Students leaving Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School after a 19-year-old armed with a semiautomatic AR-15 rifle attacked the school, killing 17. Joe Raedle/Getty Images Kakuma, Kenya, Feb. 5 In a continuing drought, a woman waited her turn at a water distribution point. The region has become measurably drier and hotter because of climate change. Joao Silva/The New York Times Near Port Lincoln, Australia, Feb. 21 A diver inspecting a cage of southern bluefin tuna in the Great Australian Bight, an open bay renowned for its sea life and targeted for natural-gas drilling in 2019. Matthew Abbott for The New York Times Mosul, Iraq, Feb. 19 Volunteers collecting unclaimed bodies, most thought to be of Islamic State fighters killed in the battle that forced the group from the city. Ivor Prickett for The New York Times Pyeongchang, South Korea, Feb. 18 Oleksandr Abramenko of Ukraine in midair. He won the Olympic gold medal in the freestyle skiing aerials competition. Doug Mills/The New York Times Washington, Feb. 27 Hope Hicks, the White House communications director, after telling House investigators that her job had occasionally required her to tell white lies. Leah Millis/Reuters London, Feb. 20 Queen Elizabeth at the Richard Quinn show during Fashion Week. Tom Jamieson for The New York Times Pyeongchang, South Korea, Feb. 10 Miu Suzaki competing with Ryuichi Kihara of Japan in pairs figure skating at the Winter Olympics. Chang W. Lee/The New York Times Atlanta, Feb. 10-12 From left: Atresia Burden, William Smalls and Taylor Owens, photographed at the extravaganza known as the Bronner Bros. beauty show. Malin Fezehai/The New York Times Atlanta, Feb. 12 Atresia Burden at the extravaganza known as the Bronner Bros. show, a celebration of black beauty. Malin Fezehai/The New York Times New York, Feb. 27 Amanda Lawrence, center, as the Angel, and Andrew Garfield as Prior Walter in “Angels in America,” which won the Tony Award for best revival of a play. Sara Krulwich/The New York Times Kobani, Syria, Feb. 5 Residents gathered to honor a militia fighter killed in the Syrian civil war. Veneration of the dead has become an effective tool for recruiting soldiers. Mauricio Lima for The New York Times Washington, Feb. 21 President Trump held notes during a White House meeting with people who had survived or had family members killed in school shootings. Tom Brenner/The New York Times Mosul, Iraq, Feb. 17 Mohammed Anizy at the wedding hall he runs. Festive wedding celebrations, once banned by the Islamic State, were returning to the city. Ivor Prickett for The New York Times Ulan Bator, Mongolia, Feb. 22 Smoke rising in the world’s coldest capital, which also has the highest recorded levels of air pollution. Many there burn coal to stay warm. Bryan Denton for The New York Times

March The terrible reach of Boko Haram. A gathering for gun control. Yola, Nigeria, March 4 Rahab Ibrahim, one of over 200 girls kidnapped from school by Boko Haram in 2014. More than 100 of her former classmates are still missing. Adam Ferguson for The New York Times Washington, March 24 The March for Our Lives rally, one of hundreds of protests held across the world calling for action on gun violence. Erin Schaff for The New York Times Washington, March 20 In the Oval Office, from left, John Kelly, the White House chief of staff; Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser; and Jared Kushner, senior adviser, with Saudi officials during a meeting between President Trump and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Doug Mills/The New York Times New Orleans, March 25 Nakosha Smith, a member of the Caramel Curves, an all-female motorcycle club that meets almost every weekend. Akasha Rabut for The New York Times Alexandria, Va., March 8 Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, after his arraignment on tax and fraud charges. Al Drago for The New York Times New York, March 29 Mr. Met, the New York Mets’ mascot, on opening day at Citi Field. Todd Heisler/The New York Times Redhill, England, March 22 What the cellphone has wrought: discarded phone booths that were once a staple of British streets. Andrew Testa for The New York Times Yola, Nigeria, March 4 Deborah, who was kidnapped and held by Boko Haram. Adam Ferguson for The New York Times Caroçal Rio das Tropas, Brazil, March 28 Members of the Munduruku tribe sorting fruit. Brazil’s newly elected president favors abolishing protections for indigenous lands. Meridith Kohut for The New York Times New York, March 5 At the three-day International Beauty Show, where eyelashes got plenty of attention. Dina Litovsky for The New York Times Dhungani, Nepal, March 2 Kusum Thapa, 17, doing her schoolwork in a chhaupadi hut. In areas of Nepal, women and girls are banished to such huts when they are menstruating. Tara Todras-Whitehill for The New York Times Pacaraima, Brazil, March 19 Two brothers at a refugee camp near the Venezuelan border. Tens of thousands of Venezuelans have sought refuge in Brazil in recent years. Federico Rios Escobar for The New York Times

April A swastika in the United States. Questions for Facebook. Draketown, Ga., April 21 Members of the National Socialist Movement, one of the larger neo-Nazi groups in the United States, burned a swastika after a rally in a nearby town. Mark Peterson/Redux Washington, April 10 Cardboard cutouts of Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, on display as he testified at a Senate hearing about the company’s practices. Gabriella Demczuk for The New York Times Norristown, Pa., April 2 Bill Cosby arriving at a courthouse during his retrial on charges of sexual assault. He was convicted later that month. Mark Makela/Getty Images Draketown, Ga., April 21 Members of the National Socialist Movement, one of the larger neo-Nazi groups in the United States, burned a swastika after a rally in a nearby town. Mark Peterson/Redux Tijuana, Mexico, April 24 Young Central Americans heading to a shelter on Day 31 of their journey across Mexico to the United States border. Meghan Dhaliwal for The New York Times

May China ascendant, and Harvey Weinstein in handcuffs. Yan’an, China, May 8 Aerospace workers in uniforms styled after those of the Chinese Red Army. China celebrated a record 69 years of Communist rule this year. Bryan Denton for The New York Times New York, May 25 The movie mogul Harvey Weinstein was escorted from a police precinct house in handcuffs after being booked on sexual assault charges. Todd Heisler/The New York Times New York, May 3 A day of record-setting heat. In the lower 48 United States, the period between May and July ranked as the hottest ever, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Andres Kudacki for The New York Times Baalbek, Lebanon, May 1 Supporters of Hezbollah watched a televised speech by Hassan Nasrallah, the group’s leader, urging them to participate in forthcoming elections. Diego Ibarra Sanchez for The New York Times Yan’an, China, May 8 Aerospace workers in uniforms styled after those of the Chinese Red Army. China celebrated a record 69 years of Communist rule this year. Bryan Denton for The New York Times ﻿Windsor, England, May 19 A new era: Meghan Markle walked herself down the aisle to marry Prince Harry at Windsor Castle. Danny Lawson/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Lake Orion, Mich., May 18 Prom night: Flint high school students in line to get their pictures taken. Callagan O’Hare Arlington, Va., May 20 Arlington National Cemetery. Already the final resting place for more than 420,000 veterans and their relatives, it is running out of space. Damon Winter/The New York Times Gaza, May 14 Under Israeli fire, at least 58 Palestinians were reportedly killed during demonstrations that coincided with the American Embassy’s move to Jerusalem. Ibraheem Abu Mustafa/Reuters Pahoa, Hawaii, May 19 A lava flow from the eruption of the Kilauea volcano, which destroyed more than 700 homes. Bruce Omori/EPA, via Shutterstock Beijing, May 4 A bride posed for pictures. After 40 years of economic growth, China, once a poor backwater, has an extreme-poverty rate of less than 1 percent. Bryan Denton for The New York Times Morecambe, England, May 4 Waiting for lunch at school. The number of children living in poverty in Britain has jumped sharply in the past six years. Laura Boushnak for The New York Times

June An outcry over the treatment of immigrant families at the border. A Trump-Kim meeting. McAllen, Tex., June 12 A 2-year-old Honduran girl cried as her mother was searched near the United States-Mexico border. John Moore/Getty Images La Malbaie, Quebec, June 9 Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany speaks with President Trump at the G-7 meeting of world leaders. Jesco Denzel/German Federal Government, via Associated Press Indian Creek, Belize, June 8 Mennonite teenagers after church. Jake Michaels for The New York Times Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, June 24 Rebel rebel: Hours before the nation’s ban on women’s driving was officially lifted, Hessah Alajaji went for a spin to get some dinner. Tasneem Alsultan for The New York Times New York, June 15 Richard Holliday hoisting Leon St. Giovanni at an underground wrestling match held in a Brooklyn church’s recreation center. Devin Yalkin for The New York Times McAllen, Tex., June 12 A 2-year-old Honduran girl cried as her mother was searched near the United States-Mexico border. John Moore/Getty Images Roade, England, June 21 Watching horse racing — it was Ladies’ Day at the Royal Ascot race meeting — at the local bowls club. Laetitia Vancon for The New York Times Washington, June 19 Melania Trump in the Oval Office as President Trump met with King Felipe VI and Queen Letizia of Spain. Doug Mills/The New York Times McAllen, Tex., June 22 Asylum seekers from Central America at a bus station after being released from custody by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Todd Heisler/The New York Times Singapore, June 12 North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Trump during their meeting on the resort island of Sentosa. Doug Mills/The New York Times New York, June 27 Members of a Police Department program for high school students mourned one of their group, 15-year-old Lesandro Guzman-Feliz, who was fatally stabbed outside a Bronx bodega. Demetrius Freeman for The New York Times

July A new nominee for the Supreme Court. A world riveted by soccer. Washington, July 30 Judge Brett Kavanaugh preparing to meet with a senator about his nomination to the Supreme Court. Erin Schaff for The New York Times Lundey Island, Iceland, July 25 Puffins killed by hunters. The birds have been in precipitous decline because of overfishing, hunting, pollution and climate change. Josh Haner/The New York Times Washington, July 30 Judge Brett Kavanaugh preparing to meet with a senator about his nomination to the Supreme Court. Erin Schaff for The New York Times Medellín, Colombia, July 27 Images of people killed during armed conflicts in the city over the past 50 years, exhibited at the Memory House Museum. Meridith Kohut for The New York Times New York, July 19 Children thought to be migrants taken from their parents played soccer near a West Harlem child welfare agency. Dave Sanders for The New York Times Philadelphia, July 12 The artist Simone Leigh working on her 16-foot-tall sculpture “Brick House,” which will be displayed on the High Line in Manhattan starting in April. Michelle Gustafson for The New York Times New York, July 29 Everyone, including the birds, vied for space on the beach at Coney Island. Daniel Arnold for The New York Times St. Petersburg, Russia, July 7 A ballerina at the Mikhailovsky Theater watching the World Cup quarterfinal match between Russia and Croatia. Anton Vaganov/Reuters

August Lost: The Queen of Soul and a storied senator. Joint Base Andrews, Md., Aug. 30 Senator John McCain’s coffin arriving to lie in state at the United States Capitol. Tom Brenner for The New York Times Mosul, Iraq, Aug. 7 Sisters at home. Their father, part of the Iraqi security forces, was killed while battling Islamic State fighters in 2014. Andrea DiCenzo for The New York Times Kaolack, Senegal, Aug. 7 Children playing on a fallen baobab tree. Africa’s oldest and largest baobabs have been dying, and scientists suspect climate change is the cause. Tomas Munita for The New York Times Shoyna, Russia, Aug. 11 A house in a fishing village along the White Sea that is slowly being invaded by sand. Sergey Ponomarev for The New York Times Laredo, Tex., Aug. 13 A sheriff’s deputy aiding Border Patrol agents working to stop a smuggling operation that transported undocumented immigrants. Todd Heisler/The New York Times Detroit, Aug. 28 Flowers atop Aretha Franklin’s gold-plated coffin. The Queen of Soul died at age 76. Pool photo by Paul Sancya New York, Aug. 18 Semyon Krasilschikov, who served in World War II, celebrating his 100th birthday in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. Alexey Yurenev for The New York Times Folly Beach, S.C., Aug. 4 Citadel cadets participated in leadership training. Alyssa Schukar for The New York Times Valdosta, Ga., Aug. 23 A supporter handed out stickers for Stacey Abrams, the first black woman to be a major-party nominee for governor in the United States. Audra Melton for The New York Times Jouarre, France, Aug. 30 Robot at work: A nursing home experimented with a new form of companionship. Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times Genoa, Italy, Aug. 23 The Morandi Bridge after it collapsed, killing 43 people and paralyzing the city. Nadia Shira Cohen for The New York Times Joint Base Andrews, Md., Aug. 30 Senator John McCain’s coffin arriving to lie in state at the United States Capitol. Tom Brenner for The New York Times Stone Mountain Park, Ga., Aug. 19 The state’s most visited tourist attraction, best known for its Confederate monument, on a summer Sunday. Audra Melton for The New York Times New York, Aug. 18 Shimika Sanchez waiting for the subway. Pregnant with her third child, she and her family lived in a Brooklyn shelter. Gabriella Angotti-Jones/The New York Times Bedminster, N.J., Aug. 9 President Trump hosting a discussion on prison reform at Trump National Golf Club. Tom Brenner for The New York Times

September Fires in California and a storm on Capitol Hill. Shasta-Trinity National Forest, Calif., Sept. 6 A firefighter working to control the Delta Fire in Northern California. Noah Berger/Associated Press Washington, Sept. 27 Christine Blasey Ford being sworn in to testify about sexual abuse allegations against Brett Kavanaugh, who testified later that day. Erin Schaff for The New York Times Washington, Sept. 28 Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, was the center of attention after he called for an F.B.I. investigation into the allegations against Judge Kavanaugh. Damon Winter/The New York Times Washington, Sept. 27 Protesters gathered outside the building where Dr. Blasey and Judge Kavanaugh were testifying. Damon Winter/The New York Times New York, Sept. 8 Serena Williams arguing with Carlos Ramos, an umpire, during the women’s final of the United States Open. Chang W. Lee/The New York Times Maharashtra State, India, Sept. 6 Ten-month-old cubs at a tiger reserve. A tiger living outside a reserve killed 13 people, prompting an intensive hunt. Bryan Denton for The New York Times Shasta-Trinity National Forest, Calif., Sept. 6 A firefighter working to control the Delta Fire in Northern California. Noah Berger/Associated Press Cholpon-Ata, Kyrgyzstan, Sept. 4 Aida Akmatova, here at the World Nomad Games, developed her trick of shooting a bow and arrow with her feet as a circus performer. Sergey Ponomarev for The New York Times Ivanhoe, N.C., Sept. 19 Hurricane Florence brought record amounts of rain to North Carolina, causing severe flooding. Ilana Panich-Linsman for The New York Times Deniliquin, Australia, Sept. 28 Cowboys at the Deni Ute Muster, an annual outdoor festival in rural New South Wales. Asanka Brendon Ratnayake for The New York Times

October Starvation in Yemen. Heartbreak in Pittsburgh. Aslam, Yemen, Oct. 18 Amal Hussain, who died at age 7 from malnutrition soon after this photograph was taken. Tyler Hicks/The New York Times Lynn Haven, Fla., Oct. 15 Trying to foster hope, firefighters raised a giant American flag after Hurricane Michael pummeled the state’s panhandle. Chang W. Lee/The New York Times Near McAllen, Tex., Oct. 3 A Border Patrol agent engaged in a chase at the Mexican border. Lynsey Addario for The New York Times Near Murphysboro, Ill., Oct. 27 President Trump at a rally to support a congressional candidate at Southern Illinois Airport. Earlier that day, 11 people were fatally shot at a Pittsburgh synagogue. Doug Mills/The New York Times Aslam, Yemen, Oct. 18 Amal Hussain, who died at age 7 from malnutrition soon after this photograph was taken. Tyler Hicks/The New York Times New York, Oct. 7 After the 34th annual blessing of the animals at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. Dina Litovsky for The New York Times Durayhimi, Yemen, Oct. 6 An injured Yemeni fighter with the Saudi-led Arab coalition battling Iranian-allied Houthis for control of Yemen arriving at a field hospital. Tyler Hicks/The New York Times Cairo, Oct. 6 Melania Trump posed before the Sphinx during a trip to Africa. Doug Mills/The New York Times Yellowstone National Park, Oct. 16 The Grand Prismatic Spring, a hot spring that radiates stunning color, seen from above. Josh Haner/The New York Times New York, Oct. 31 Members of Miami City Ballet performing in “Serenade” as part of opening night of the Balanchine festival at New York City Center. Andrea Mohin/The New York Times Palu, Indonesia, Oct 2 A mosque damaged in a 7.5-magnitude earthquake and tsunami that killed more than 2,000 people. Adam Dean for The New York Times Chicago, Oct. 5 The crowd outside the courthouse where a police officer, Jason Van Dyke, was found guilty of second-degree murder in the shooting of Laquan McDonald. Alyssa Schukar for The New York Times Houston, Oct. 22 President Trump with Senator Ted Cruz of Texas at a campaign rally. Doug Mills/The New York Times Indianapolis, Oct. 27 Attendees at the National FFA (Future Farmers of America) Organization convention watching President Trump speak. Doug Mills/The New York Times New York, Oct. 31 Alexandra Hutchinson of the Dance Theater of Harlem painted her shoes with makeup to match her skin color. An Rong Xu for The New York Times Pittsburgh, Oct. 31 Mourners gathered for the funeral of Joyce Fienberg, one of 11 people killed in a massacre at a synagogue. Hilary Swift for The New York Times Pittsburgh, Oct. 31 The grave of Rose Mallinger, who was killed at the Tree of Life synagogue. She was 97. Hilary Swift for The New York Times

November Democrats take back the House. The world mourns a slain journalist. Washington, Nov. 14 Class picture: incoming members of Congress. Erin Schaff for The New York Times Houston, Nov. 6 Volunteers drove through the city in a converted school bus used for historical tours, encouraging people to vote and offering rides to polling locations. Tamir Kalifa for The New York Times Tallahassee, Fla., Nov. 6 Mayor Andrew Gillum, Democratic candidate for governor, cast his vote with his twin children. Gabriella Angotti-Jones/The New York Times Washington, Nov. 14 Class picture: incoming members of Congress. Erin Schaff for The New York Times Paradise, Calif., Nov. 14 The Camp Fire was the most destructive wildfire in the state’s history. Eric Thayer for The New York Times Near Wasilla, Alaska, Nov. 30 An aerial view of one of many roads damaged by a magnitude-7 earthquake. Marc Lester/Anchorage Daily News, via Associated Press New York, Nov. 14 Viewing David Hockney’s “Portrait of an Artist (Pool With Two Figures)” at Christie’s, where it fetched a record price for a work by a living artist. Karsten Moran for The New York Times New York, Nov. 8 Backstage at the Victoria’s Secret fashion show. Landon Nordeman for The New York Times Istanbul, Turkey, Nov. 16 A mosque held a symbolic funeral for the Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, assassinated in the Saudi consulate. Bulent Kilic/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images