With my dad, money was always a bit of a wild ride. Sometimes he got the bills paid, but other times he really didn’t. Champagne at Christmas many years; administratively withdrawn from school campuses for unpaid tuition some others. While raising a family of seven on an artist’s mercurial paycheck, he managed some miracles. His genius was in his agility in toggling between the flush and the lean, sometimes in the same year — the five kids piled into the station wagon and taken with our very best table manners to the Russian Tea Room for chicken à la Kiev, for the Rockettes at Radio City, walking Fifth Avenue to the tree — in spite of the electricity’s being shut off or having to siphon gas for the car. With deep practice I’ve learned to braid them into one single experience without having to switch back and forth at all. Caviar for the holidays, yes, but not rolled in on the proper silver cart, with the glittering shaved ice, the warm blini tucked in the white napkin, the mother-of-pearl spoons. I’m saying, rather, a kind of louche, very likable but humbler deal: a sandwich. With domestic farmed caviar, spooned between two thin pieces of white toast, with boiled egg and crème fraîche and chopped scallions in there, too, for an affordable, but luscious and haute, lowbrow sandwich. All at once a little messy and a little decadent and a little modest. As my father would cheerfully say, “Diamonds and burlap!”

He was a big fan of maxims like that, repeated with such frequency and pleasure when he landed on ones he found of particularly good use, meant to protect us and inspire us, I’d like to think, even if sometimes they misfired and grazed your ear like a stray bullet: “The world doesn’t need another mediocre painter!” to the high school senior hoping to apply to art school. “Professionals deliver; amateurs explain why they couldn’t!” to the 9-year-old who wasn’t able to get the shifter on the sit-down mower into gear.

One that never seemed to sting, though: “Nobody has any new ideas; it’s all in knowing who to steal from!” It continues to be particularly useful. The idea for a caviar sandwich is not mine; it comes from the Oyster Bar at Grand Central, where it is, I say with sincere and grateful respect, not executed as well as it could be. But we’ve fixed that here.