However, 2018 also had a lot of downfalls. There was an outbreak in violence and hate crimes without warning. Children were killed in their schools, family were gassed at the border, and people were killed for their differences. The lack of acceptance and empathy was one of the worst parts of 2018 for me.

However, there are some reasons why I will be sad to see this year pass by. In recent months I have really started to make lifelong friends who stand by my side and I’ve managed to make huge strides for my mental health. It’s been a very eye-opening year to say the least. But there is a flip-side to all these things as well. In order to reach the place that I am in now, I’ve gone through some very hard days and deal with bouts of sadness that often never seemed like they would end. Despite this, I know that everything myself and all those who struggled this year will help us in the long run.

— Leela Hoerschelmann, Bryant High School, Ark.

A year for personal growth

I really admired all of the students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland who responded so strongly to the shooting and called on our government for gun reform. They are so brave, dedicated, and amazing. This was more personal for me because over the summer I got to know Casey Sherman, lead organizer of the March for our Lives in Parkland and currently a senior at MSD (she was my CIT at overnight camp). Casey is all around a wonderful person: She is so kind, a great leader, and unafraid to stand up for what she knows is right. I feel inspired by Casey, and I also feel lucky to know someone so amazing …

Not only have I been inspired by Casey, but knowing her has also given me an entirely new perspective on the shooting. Before, when I heard about shootings, I thought, “Oh, this is horrible,” but that was really it. Now that I have a personal connection to a survivor of a school shooting, it seems much more real to me, as I can imagine it happening to someone I know. Knowing a survivor also makes it seem so much worse. Innocent students are being killed, in America of all places, because mentally ill people can get access to guns. We need gun reform and we need it now. If Casey has taught me anything, it is that you should always speak up for what you believe in, and even a 16- or 17-year-old can make a big difference.

— Sivan Frankel, Philadelphia, Penn.

This year marks another monumental change in my life- however, it was a slow burn. It didn’t happen all at once; it was more of numerous changes in my perception that have changed who I am. Mostly, my world view has changed. As I grow older, I kept understanding the weight of too many bad decisions, hatred, fear, and misguided thinking that produce a lot of bad in the world. There have been shootings seemly around every corner and words of hate tossed around too easily.

But something hit closer to home this year. Not only on the news, but a murmur in my own home, the topic of every phone call and rant of my mother’s was the state of her maiden country: Venezuela. It was this year when I started understanding the gravity of what was going on and the suffering taking place. Since news would constantly relay to me that it was only getting worse, the fear that my grandparents would replace the people I saw starving in news articles creeped into the back of my mind. My cousin would tell me her horror stories of tear gas and guns ricocheting, my aunt would send videos of her walks in empty grocery stores, and my uncle would share that he had waited six hours to get gasoline for the week.

Comprehending how this could be happening to those closest to me made me rethink all that I value, but our family’s struggles has only brought us closer. Overall, I’ll be happy to leave behind the stress and turmoil of this year. I’m thankful for 2018, but I hope 2019 will be kinder.

— Michelle Lamas, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.