This week, Isabel Wilkerson reviews Michelle Obama’s best-selling memoir, “Becoming.” Obama’s book joins a tradition of memoirs by former first ladies. In 1978, Jane Howard reviewed Betty Ford’s memoir, “The Times of My Life.”

Written with Chris Chase, Mrs. Ford’s memoir abounds with proof that fate sure can play funny tricks. Her story is already part of American legend — Middle Western madcap goes east, dances with Martha Graham, returns to Grand Rapids, coordinates fashions for a department store, leads conga lines, marries a diabetic salesman, divorces him after five years. She is married again to an earnest politician who takes her to Washington and leaves her alone a lot during the years “our gang” of four towheads is growing up. Betty teaches Sunday school, leads Scout troops, drinks, gets fat, slims down, suffers a pinched nerve in her neck, gets hooked on the pills prescribed by her doctors. Her husband is so uncontroversial he becomes President; his wife astonishes the nation by saying what she thinks, thereby becoming one of the most “popular” and “admired” women in the world. Imagine, a First Lady who favors gun control and abortion and feminism!

It’s too bad this book’s last chapter, on her month at the Long Beach Naval Hospital’s Alcohol and Drug Rehabilitation Center, couldn’t have come first. “I’m Betty and I’m an alcoholic” — a line from one of her group-therapy sessions with sailors — would have made a smashing opening sentence. Or, better yet, “I’m Betty and I’m an alcoholic and I’ve just had my face lifted” — a procedure she endured just this fall, after the book had gone to press, because “I’m sixty years old and I wanted a nice new face to go with my beautiful new life.” Fair enough, though it would be nice to have an icon who could live with her wrinkles. So cheers, in Perrier water with a twist of lime. It’s to both authors’ credit that these memoirs sound just like Betty Ford herself: as American as a suburban shopping mall. Reading the book is like going to the mall to buy just one thing, and ending up staying all afternoon.