Lose “When I Was a Teenager …”

Adolescents tend to tune out anything that comes after “When I was a teenager …”. Indeed, my own informal surveys have taught me that young people find uttering these five words to be the second most annoying thing parents routinely do. (The first? Entering a closed room to address the teenager therein, then neglecting to shut the door on the way out.)

Citing our own adolescence can be a conversation killer, since our kids often reject the premise that their teenage years have anything in common with ours. On this they’ve got a point. We did not come of age while submerged in digital waters, and what we accomplished as high school students pales in comparison to what many young people now achieve, such as the demanding course loads that many of today’s high school students take on.

Even when addressing the timeless aspects of adolescence, reminiscing aloud may not be prudent. Though teenagers are often unfairly critiqued, it is true that adolescence can be a phase of marked egocentrism. As a psychologist, I have learned that teenagers — who may regard their travails as singular and unprecedented — sometimes dismiss even compassionate efforts to draw parallels between anyone else’s experiences and their own. This goes double when that anyone else is a parent. Be sure to focus on the here and now for your teenager, not the there and then for you.

Appreciate the Limits of Your Understanding

We often try to guide teenagers on topics that are foreign to us but familiar to them. For example, many adolescents can name a dozen e-liquid flavors, several e-cigarette devices, and tell you which of their classmates vapes, with whom, where and under what conditions. Given this, it’s fair to assume that our teenagers might have the same this-oughta-be-good reaction to us saying, “We need to talk about vaping” that we would have if our teenager said to us, “We need to talk about your mortgage.”

Not that we should clam up about vaping and other important health and safety topics. But we should own what we don’t know. If we start by asking, “Would you explain vaping to me?” and follow that up with earnest questions, we reduce the odds of an eye roll when we eventually offer that we read an article on the hazards of nicotine and ask our teenager if she wants to see it.