Nietzsche

To the Editor:

I enjoyed Steven B. Smith’s discussion of Sue Prideaux’s “I Am Dynamite! A Life of Nietzsche” and John Kaag’s “Hiking With Nietzsche: On Becoming Who You Are” (Nov. 25), but I have one small quibble — a lack of balance on Nietzsche’s views of Jews. It’s a bit misleading to talk of Nietzsche’s “flirtations with anti-Semitism” without citing the ample evidence that Nietzsche loathed anti-Semites. His disgust with anti-Semitism soured his relationship with both his sister and Richard Wagner.

When Nietzsche mentioned Jews, it was most often to praise them. In “Human, All Too Human,” he wrote that “their energy and higher intelligence, their capital of spirit and will, which accumulated from generation to generation in the long school of their suffering, must predominate to a degree that awakens envy and hatred; … [this] leads the Jews to the slaughterhouse, as scapegoats for every possible public and private misfortune. … [a people] to whom we owe the noblest human being (Christ), the purest philosopher (Spinoza), the mightiest book and the most effective moral code in the world.”

PHILIP HANSTEN

SANTA ROSA, CALIF.

A Place for Poetry?

To the Editor:

In “Asphodel, That Greeny Flower,” William Carlos Williams wrote that “It is difficult / to get the news from poems / yet men die miserably every day / for lack / of what is found there.” It’s made more difficult when the “newspaper of record” includes just three books of poems on its list of 100 Notable Books of 2018 (Dec. 2), which also includes 47 works of fiction. This is just the latest example of The Times failing to acknowledge the power and importance of poetry.

SHARON BRYAN

SEATTLE

Our Northern Neighbor

To the Editor:

We Canadians are resigned to being minor footnotes to the American magnum opus, but Andrew McCarthy’s travel roundup review of Porter Fox’s “Northland: A 4,000-Mile Journey Along America’s Forgotten Border” (Dec. 2) struck a new low by refusing to name the country that defines your northern border. O Canada indeed!