LOS ANGELES — When Rob Marshall, the director of the film “Mary Poppins Returns,” realized that Dick Van Dyke was the same age as the grizzled London banker he played in his second role in the original 1964 “Mary Poppins,” Marshall had a eureka! moment: Why not ask Van Dyke, now 93, to play Mr. Dawes Jr., the banker’s son, for the sequel? At the time, Marshall had not met the tripping-over-the-ottoman star of “The Dick Van Dyke Show,” but the filmmaker wasn’t worried that Van Dyke wasn’t up to the physical challenge. Marshall recalled that he once saw the actor at a Malibu grocery store, “and he was literally dancing up and down the aisles while he was shopping.”

Set in Depression-era England, “Mary Poppins Returns,” which opened on Dec. 19, follows that tinkly-voiced child-minder (Emily Blunt, stepping into the Julie Andrews part) as she descends from the sky again to brighten the lives of the Banks family: the rumpled widower Michael (Ben Whishaw), his three young children and his activist sister, Jane (Emily Mortimer). Lin-Manuel Miranda shows up as Poppins’s sidekick, Jack, a lamplighter. It isn’t until late in the film that Van Dyke makes his bushy-haired, bewhiskered appearance, but Marshall said that the veteran hoofer (who also played the chimney sweep Bert in the original) aced his cameo — a two-minute monologue with a bit of ad-libbing, a jump onto a desk, followed by dancing — in “two takes, maybe three. He just nailed it.”

[Read our interview with Lin-Manuel Miranda on “Mary Poppins Returns.”]

Van Dyke has been practicing since his high school days in Danville, Ill., where he jettisoned plans to join the ministry soon after he discovered drama class. He went on to do it all: He was one-half of a touring mime team, a television announcer, a radio disc jockey. It was the theater director and choreographer Gower Champion who saw potential in Van Dyke’s rubbery-legged agility and cast him as the lead in a Broadway production of “Bye Bye Birdie.”

“But Mr. Champion, I don’t dance,” Van Dyke told him.

“We’ll teach you,” Champion promised. Since then, Van Dyke hasn’t stopped moving.