Choosing the year’s 100 Notable Books and then the 10 Best isn’t easy. Campaigns are mounted and long debates ensue. In the end, there’s general agreement — on some books more than others — but sometimes there’s disappointment when a favorite doesn’t make the cut. So this year, we asked a few staff members on the Books desk to tell us about their “should a beens” or “could a beens” for 2018.

First, Those That Didn’t Make Our 100 Notable Books of 2018 …

[Read “The 100 Notable Books of 2018.”]

One of the most remarkable and mesmerizing books I read this year was “I’ll Be Gone in the Dark,” Michelle McNamara’s true crime story about the Golden State Killer, a serial rapist and murderer who terrorized suburbs in California in the 1970s and 1980s. The book made an impression on me not because of the narrative or the prose, but because it was unfinished, offering a rare window into the messy and psychologically taxing process of researching and writing a book. McNamara was obsessed with the unsolved crimes, but died before finishing the book. Her husband, Patton Oswalt, recruited researchers to finish it, but instead of trying to mimic her voice and flesh out chapters, her co-authors let the jagged edges of the unfinished project show. Some chapters are pieced together from her notes, and are marked with disclaimers. Other sections read like raw, unfiltered research, and one chapter consists entirely of a transcript from McNamara’s interview with a criminalist in the Contra Costa sheriff’s office. McNamara wasn’t alive to see it when the Golden State Killer was finally arrested this spring, but some credited her research for drawing attention to the case. — Alexandra Alter

This year, I really enjoyed reading “Monstress, Volume Three: Haven,” the third collection of the darkly beautiful Image Comics series written by Marjorie Liu and drawn by Sana Takeda. Issues of “Monstress” began to appear in 2015, but the story is so immersive that I wait and buy the annual trade collections so I can binge it up, Netflix-style. Although it’s not for the squeamish when it comes to violence and language, Liu and Takeda have created a vivid, dynamic world, sort of a steampunk Asia of a century ago, and populated it with sharp characters and an intricate mythology that incorporates gods, monsters and everything in between. Female characters dominate Liu’s story line — which unfolds bit by bit like a novel through Takeda’s gorgeous sequential panels — and touches on themes of race, war, duality, friendships and the meaning of family. In all my decades of reading comics, I’ve never seen anything quite like “Monstress,” and even though it falls in the category of epic fantasy, it also confirms my suspicion that sarcastic cats are secretly in charge of everything. — J.D. Biersdorfer

Lynne Tillman’s latest novel, “Men and Apparitions,” makes few concessions to the reader — in this it is like all of her books, which channel slightly neurotic characters (O.K., wholly neurotic characters) and lead us deep into their psyches with little concern for conventional story lines or other helpful guideposts. What they offer instead is nearly claustrophobic access to another consciousness, working out psychological obsessions with verve, intelligence and often comical deflection. In this book the neurotic in question is the ethnographer Zeke Stark, whose ruminations amount to a series of dense essays about Instagram, pop culture and (beneath it all) his baffled pain over the wife who has left him for his best friend. It’s challenging, bonkers and maybe kind of great? — Gregory Cowles