For many years, state and federal law in the United States banned this kind of account, judging it a form of gambling that should not be mixed with savings. But as Tina Rosenberg has written in The New York Times, the few small efforts that have been permitted found promising results.

In 2014, Congress passed the American Savings Promotion Act, which cleared the way for prize-linked savings, subject to state approval. With the addition of California in September, 29 states have legalized the practice. A Massachusetts nonprofit, Commonwealth, has been a pioneer in “gamifying” savings in the United States.

We can get a preview of what we might see from South Africa, where a commercial bank in 2005 introduced a Million-a-Month Account — so named because if offered people with savings accounts a top prize in a monthly drawing of 1 million South African rand, then the equivalent of about $167,000.

Sign-ups were especially brisk among people with high debt levels and no other savings accounts, according to a study. That is exactly the population that policymakers would like to encourage to save more.

An experimental economics lab at the University of Maryland produced promising results, too. Undergraduate students were asked to make savings decisions. When the interest on their savings was paid out as prizes instead of steady payments, students chose to save more, especially those who said they had purchased lottery tickets in the past year.

Unlike state lotteries, most prize-linked savings accounts are actuarially fair, meaning that the average payment through prizes is the same as with a typical interest-bearing account. If you put $1,000 in a regular savings account, for example, you might earn about $15 in steady interest payments over a year. If you instead used an account with a lottery feature, you might get steady payments that amount to only $10, but you also have a one-in-a-thousand chance of winning a $5,000 prize. On average, the payments for the two accounts are the same. (You might also have a one-in-a-thousand chance of a $500 prize and the chance to win several other smaller but still substantial prizes.)

In other words, the lottery feature in this case is not making people systematically worse off, though the outcomes will differ among individuals, because some will win while many others will lose.