But what hit me hardest about the show that beat out “Follies” and “Grease” for a best musical Tony Award were those melodies. Uplifting, many with a Latin inflection, they weaponized joy and sounded as much like soul and mambo as show tunes, and were at least as good as the songs from “Godspell” and “Pippin” that were contemporizing Broadway theater around that time.

I bought the album and sheet music with the sexy cartoon graphic, and played the songs over and over. At a time when so much music could be so harsh, there was a humane harmony to that score, suggesting, like in “Hair,” a diverse but melded community of searchers that appealed to an isolated kid in white-bread suburbia. I sang the songs in the shower and while I walked to school, worried about bullies and gym class. As a lonely college transfer student in 1980, I bonded with a fellow student who sang from “Two Gentleman” with me: “You can’t love another without loving yourself,” we’d belt. He later became a psychoanalyst.

A few years after that, MacDermot had another show up at the Public Theater, where “Hair” had premiered decades before. “The Human Comedy,” an adaptation by William Dumaresq of the bittersweet William Saroyan novella about a California family during World War II, brought me to tears. It wasn’t from sadness, although it was a sad tale about the nicest people. It was rapture, really. Somehow those surging melodies conjured the lives and souls of a more innocent America — with children waving to hobos on passing trains and telegraph poles rising into the horizon, full of “messages from places afar,” many of them devastating ones from the War Department.

“Beautiful music is in the air,” a gospel chorus sang with dark hope. I hear it to this day.

That show went on to Broadway. It was well reviewed, but didn’t last long. A revival more recently didn’t take off, either. “Two Gentleman of Verona,” revived in Central Park in 2005, didn’t catch on, even with its gorgeously diverse cast. And there were many other forgotten shows with penetrating music that MacDermot wrote, along with soundtracks, albums and a lilting lullaby, “Cover Up My Head,” sung by the McGarrigle Sisters, soulful Canadians like him. It’s another of his songs that cracks open my heart. It also makes me feel, I dare say, grateful to be alive, although it would be safe to add that you would be grateful not to hear me singing it.

Words, it is said, make you think, but music makes you feel, and because MacDermot always makes me feel so much, I’m a hopeless and sentimental admirer. But then, when prolific artists are so talented but not so well-known, our devotion to them is even stronger, isn’t it? The author Nick Hornby once put obsessing over music this way: “And mostly all I have to say about these songs is that I love them, and want to sing along to them, and force other people to listen to them, and get cross when these other people don’t like them as much as I do.”