The general stood out to me when he ordered Marines to make a ramshackle wooden operations center “look better than Yosemite’s visitor center,” as one Marine put it. He wanted visiting Iraqi delegations to feel more at ease despite the hard talk that took place in the center on the eve of the biggest battle of the Iraq war.

After Mr. Trump nominated him, Congress had to give Mr. Mattis a special waiver to lead the Pentagon because he was so recently retired. Legitimate concerns were raised about civilian-military relations. Would a four-decade military man known for his war-fighting acumen be an appropriate fit as a civilian official in charge of a $700 billion military budget and millions of service members? That question now appears more settled than not. Mr. Mattis has been a steadying force on the president’s ever-changing team, reportedly working behind the scenes to restrain his bellicose boss and, more publicly, to sustain America’s global alliances.

The great risk today, almost two years after the Senate voted 99 to 1 to confirm Mr. Mattis, is that an overtly political person will take his place. The likelihood of a new Pentagon chief who prioritizes loyalty to a president over loyalty to the ideals and values of the country could signal a renewed willingness to blur lines in the moral conduct of American foreign policy.

Politicians of all stripes should recall that it was President Ronald Reagan, the most iconic of modern Republican leaders, who urged Senate ratification of the United Nations anti-torture treaty. In a letter to senators urging ratification of the Convention Against Torture in 1988, Reagan wrote that torture was “an abhorrent practice unfortunately still prevalent in the world today.”

When Mr. Mattis decamps from Washington in February, the United States risks a return to the “dark side” of its conduct after Sept. 11. Only the United States can really hold itself to account in how it engages with the rest of the world. And many other governments, good and bad, will continue to see the bar for conduct either being raised or lowered depending on America’s lead. The Saudis are arguably the most relevant example in this regard right now, given the recent murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul.