But, Mr. Arcos said, Mr. Suazo Córdova had a steely core. In early 1984 he sided with dissident military officers who had put a gun to General Álvarez’s head and shipped him out of the country. Mr. Suazo Córdova was the godfather of a child of the coup leader, Col. Walter Lopez Reyes of the air force.

Later, friends of General Álvarez tried to assassinate Mr. Suazo Córdova. The F.B.I. discovered the plot in Miami. Ultimately, General Álvarez’s former chief of staff, an arms dealer he had befriended, and several others were sent to prison. The plot, investigators said, was going to be financed from the sale of cocaine smuggled into Florida. General Álvarez returned to Honduras and was killed in 1989 in an ambush near his home in the capital.

In December 1982, a daughter of Mr. Suazo Córdova’s, Dr. Judith Xiomara Suazo Estrada, then 33, was kidnapped by guerrillas in Guatemala, held for 10 days and released after Guatemala and more than a dozen Latin American newspapers agreed to publish a statement by the guerrillas describing Honduras as the “imperialist headquarters for the invasion of Nicaragua.” The guerrillas referred to Mr. Suazo Córdova as “the buffoon of the imperialist plans.”

Mr. Suazo Cordova suffered a heart attack in the summer of 1983, when he was 55. He was treated at an American field hospital in Honduras and then flown by the United States to Walter Reed Hospital in Washington, according to John Negroponte, who worked closely with Mr. Suazo Cordova as the American ambassador in Honduras from 1981, just before Mr. Suazo Cordova was elected, until 1985. (Critics of United State policy in Honduras often focused on Mr. Negroponte. They sometimes referred to him derogatorily as the proconsul and as the third member of a ruling triumvirate.)

Mr. Suazo Cordova had once been a hard drinker. “When I first met him,” Mr. Negroponte said, “He would tell you he hadn’t had a drink for years and he would tell you the day he stopped and how long it had been since then.”

Roberto Suazo Córdova was born in La Paz on March 17, 1927, the youngest of five children of Julian Suazo and Matilde Cordova. His father owned a small farm and was governor of the province of La Paz in the 1930s.

Mr. Suazo Córdova had six children with four women, said Jorge Canahuati, the chief executive of a company that publishes the newspapers Diario La Prensa and Diario El Heraldo. Besides his daughter Dr. Suazo Estrada, his survivors include three other children, Joseph Julian Suazo Cervantes, Socorro Maria Suazo Cervantes and Carmen Chavarria.