“Pride” winks continually at its source material: Instead of the “Bennet” family, we meet the “Benetiz” family, “Jane” becomes “Janae,” “Lady Catherine de Bourgh” becomes “paternal grandmother, Mrs. Catherine Darcy” and so on. One pleasure of the book, then, is watching how the blistering romance between Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy maps onto characters so different from Austen’s original creations. Yet that steadfast loyalty to Austen is also the biggest hurdle the book faces. By adhering so closely to the plotting of its source material, “Pride” can be a bit predictable, even to readers with only a cursory knowledge of “Pride and Prejudice.”

Instead, the more compelling and unexpected romance of the novel is not the courtship between Zuri and Darius: It’s the love story between Zuri and her home, a neighborhood threatened by gentrification. Rather than simply say gentrification is bad, “Pride” holds a nuanced conversation about the ways that an influx of wealth can dismantle a neighborhood and help it at the same time, as seen through the eyes of a girl who must navigate that change.

“My neighborhood is made of love,” Zuri notes. “But it’s money and buildings and food and jobs that keep it alive — and even I have to admit that the new people moving in, with their extra money and dreams, can sometimes make things better.” What she wants is to “figure out a way to make both sides of Bushwick work.”

It is that story — the story of an ambitious girl struggling to cherish her home, even in the face of change — that gives “Pride” its spark and its heart.

Image

Rather than revisiting a classic tale of love, THE BONELESS MERCIES (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 352 pp., $18.99; ages 12 and up), by April Genevieve Tucholke, goes the opposite route: It explores death, war and glory by adapting “Beowulf.” The book follows a group of young girls, the titular Boneless Mercies, who are trained killers, traveling across Vorseland, putting the old and sick out of their misery. But one of the Mercies, Frey, wants more than the death trade has to offer. She wants to kill not for money but for glory: “I would try my hand at greatness, and see where it led. Glory. I wanted to touch it. Taste it.” With glory in mind, the Boneless Mercies set out to kill the dreaded Blue Vee beast, a giant terrorizing the land.