Some fights are necessary; what time to leave is not one of them.

Order a cocktail without annoying the bartender

From Leigh Kunkel, a food and drink writer and former bartender in Chicago:

You know the feeling: a bartender places an intimidating cocktail menu in front of you with words you’ve never heard before. Panicked, you want to order something you think will be simple, giving the bartender few instructions so she can simply work her magic.

“Can I just have something with gin?” you ask. Or something “strong.” Or worse yet, the phrase every bartender hates: “not sweet,” which can mean anything from “I love citrus but not strawberry” to “I really just want cold vodka in a glass,” making it impossible to tell what you truly want.

Instead of asking your bartender to read your mind to discern your tastes, try reversing your thought process: What do you like in a drink? Things like “tropical” or “spirit-forward” give the bartender much more to work with, because they indicate flavor profiles that can be developed in multiple different ways, from spirit choice to the addition of syrups and bitters.

Style is also essential: If you don’t like the bitter, boozy gin Negroni, you might still love another gin cocktail, like an easy-drinking gimlet. If you tell your bartender that you love ginger beer, she’ll likely steer you toward a Moscow Mule or a Dark and Stormy; if you use words like “bubbly” or “effervescent,” she’ll know that an Air Mail is a safe bet.

When all else fails, use this simple formula: strength + flavor. For example, “I’d like something light and tart,” or “I’m looking for a strong, herbaceous drink.” Just a few extra words will make your night — and your bartender’s — much more enjoyable.

Listen to video game music while you work (really!)

From Angelica Frey, a writer in Brooklyn by way of Milan:

You know when you just can’t stick to a task that takes deep concentration because you keep getting distracted? Here’s something that might help: music, but not the often-recommended Mozart or Beethoven.

Rather, my solution is video game music, which is designed to help players remain involved in singular task for an extended period of time. The melodies are pleasant to the ear but, crucially, not overbearing. Just like I’ve endured training my characters for more than an hour listening to the same tune, with video game music I can stick to the most boring aspects of my work for extended bursts of concentration. This is my recipe:

Choose between ambient and rhythmic

Whether you prefer atmospheric or rhythmic tracks, video game music offers great options for both categories. I’m a fan of melodies with a slight “oompah,” as they give my workflow a rhythm to follow. Here is one of my favorites, and here are some other great options: Waltz for The Moon (rhythmic), Star Maze (rhythmic), Forest Interlude (ambient) and Arrival (ambient).