HAZARDS OF TIME TRAVEL

By Joyce Carol Oates

324 pp. Ecco/HarperCollins. $26.99.

Increasingly I wonder whether Joyce Carol Oates is attempting to become Margaret Atwood. Her 40-odd novels, traced over the past 50-odd years, mark an increasing tendency toward dystopia. She is most famous for what one might call novels of small-scale violence, in which individuals might get bloodied (or kidnapped, or sacrificially killed, or implicated in a murder-suicide) but societies usually get off scot-free. Now she has written a thriller in which the murder victim is America.

The violence of Oates’s world is excessive, but then again it looks much like our own. Like other prolific authors, Oates has always plucked characters and plot-points from the real world: Jeffrey Dahmer, JonBenet Ramsey, Marilyn Monroe. Oates has a tendency to broadcast the threats that are fashionable, not necessarily the ones most likely to befall us. She makes distorted photocopies of the American psyche: biker gangs, psychotic mothers, amnesiacs, cults, sexual abuse, race riots, serial killers, strippers who are also serial killers. So if the country in “Hazards of Time Travel” looks a lot like Gilead, that may be the fault of America and not Atwood.

The novel opens with a self-explicating monologue. “Sometimes on my knees in a posture of prayer I am able to break through the ‘censor barrier’ — to remember,” the protagonist, Adriane, begins. “But my brain hurts so!” Adriane calls herself an Exile, as quickly explained immediately after: The Exiled Individual (EI) is limited by the Homeland Security Exile Disciplinary Bureau to a 10-mile radius around an assigned residence. A flood of definitions follows. We are told that Mexico and Canada have been “reconstituted,” the United States Constitution replaced by “Patriot Vigilance.”

Image

Oates has always said that her primary interest is in personality. A writer like Atwood takes great joy in world-building, but for Oates it’s a chore to be dispensed with. And so the Cliffs Notes-like introduction is a frantic scrabble to get back into charted territory. We meet Adriane’s humble father, forced out of his medical residency for “listening sympathetically” to a political speech; her weasly brother, Roderick, stuck in a menial job at the Media Dissemination Bureau (MDB); and Adriane herself, first selected valedictorian and then arrested before graduation. “How ironic it was,” Adriane exclaims. “I’d been, for those few cruel days, valedictorian of my high school class!”