From that moment, Jones began writing in earnest, turning “anything into a story” and filling notebooks with adventures. She found power in these tales, which she says helped her through six years in the foster care system.

“You are changing schools two to three times a year depending on how often you leave a home. You just don’t tell people that you are a foster care kid,” she said. “You create a story around your life and what is happening to it.”

In 1994, when she was 12 years old, Jones was reunited with her family and moved to Poughkeepsie, N.Y. She stayed there for several years and enrolled at Dutchess Community College before transferring to Sarah Lawrence. For a variety of reasons, a combination of financial issues and bureaucracy, Jones did not finish her degree. “I love learning, but I don’t like schools and I don’t particularly care for most institutions,” she said.

Jones went on to work a series of odd jobs: “Every working-class job in America that you can probably think of, I’ve done it,” she said. These included being a nurses’ aide, a 911 dispatcher and a saleswoman for leather goods and luggage.

In 2013, she was accepted as a PEN America Emerging Voices fellow. That January, she moved to Los Angeles where she immersed herself in the literary scene and began to lay the plans for her current career. The program was only nine months long and, with a one-time stipend of $1,000, offered little in the way of financial support. But at the end of her fellowship, Jones decided to stay in Los Angeles and continue writing.

Jones always knew she wanted to start a company related to publishing. Her love of small press books and her frustrations with the way published black writers were frequently overlooked, led her to settle on publicity and marketing. It would allow her to choose her own clients and be her own boss.

However, despite the independence it can afford, publicity is a difficult space for a woman of color to break into because like most of the publishing industry, it remains dominated by white women.