Read all the Sweet Spot columns right here.

CS: And perhaps a bit of reassurance too. I think the most essential advice Steve and I have given is the simple consolation that it’s going to be O.K., even if it’s hard right now. One childhood memory that has never left me is the way it felt when my mother stroked my forehead when I was sick with a fever — that deep sense of comfort amid the misery. I think we all long for that, to be soothed when we’re suffering, to have others bear witness to our struggles, to be told we have the strength and the courage to push through. That’s what I aspire to offer those who seek my advice. It’s easy to assume that people write to strangers when they’re bewildered — and there is some of that — but far more often people write to us when deep down they already know what they should do. Our job is to say they can, they will and they must, though it won’t be easy.

It’s often scary to admit we know what we need to do because setting a course of action based on that knowledge can push us outside of our comfort zones. Sometimes it’s that we need to hurt someone’s feelings by ending a relationship, or make ourselves vulnerable by taking a risk, or endure the discomfort of a conflict or a confession, or let go of an idea we used to have about who we are so we can replace it with a truer one. We often resist doing those things because they’re difficult and painful, but over and over again, in response to a wide range of questions, Steve and I have landed upon one value: To live a content and evolved life, you must trust your clarity and act upon it. Again and again we’ve said it’s not only O.K. to listen to the deepest voice within us that knows — it’s essential. In the long run you’ll be miserable if you don’t.

SA: That’s easy for us to say, and much harder to put into practice. Too often, especially in moments of crisis, we can’t find clarity. We distrust ourselves. We engineer situations that allow us to remain loyal to the sorrows of our childhood. That, too, is a part of the human arrangement. People resist change. They have trouble forgiving themselves and forgiving those around them. Cheryl and I are under no illusion that a few kind and considered words can undo patterns years in the making. This is why we so often advise people to seek out support groups, therapists and hotlines. The gravest danger to the wounded heart is an isolating silence.

We also recommend that people look to literature for solace and guidance, which is what we always do in times of tribulation. As Cheryl intuited long ago, people learn more from stories than lectures, because stories are how we pluck meaning from the rush of experience. The letters we receive — in which people tell their own stories — are themselves healing documents. It has been a profound honor to read them. It takes courage to examine the inner life and to ask for help. It’s also been an honor, and a pure joy, to work with Cheryl, to be in conversation with such a brilliant mind and an intrepid heart. Most of what I know about giving advice, I’ve learned from her. I’ll miss working with you, my friend.

CS: I suppose I can’t have expected I’d make it through this final column without crying, so thank you for that, Steve. I was honored when you asked me to take over the Dear Sugar column all those years ago because I’d long been a fan of your writing. But my admiration and love for you has only grown as we’ve worked together writing this column and making the Dear Sugars podcast. I’m in awe of your deep intelligence and compassion. And even though this is our last column, I’ll forever be seeking your advice.