Mr. Skolnick, working now from California, has spoken with both over satellite phone since they began their journeys, and he can exchange text messages with Mr. O’Brady. Each explorer has enough bandwidth to upload one photograph of his journey each day, which often takes hours to transmit.

Every evening, K.K. Rebecca Lai, a Graphics editor at The Times, pulls the most recent coordinates transmitted by the men’s GPS trackers to update a map on The Times’s website she developed with Denise Lu, a fellow Graphics editor. It displays each of their locations along with the distances they traveled the previous day, their total distances traveled and their elevations. “The idea was always three really good pieces, one at the beginning, one in the middle and one at the end,” Sam Manchester, a deputy sports editor, said of The Times’s coverage plans for the trek. But they wanted to do more than traditional stories, he said: “The thing we really felt we needed to do is give readers a way to follow these guys.”

As Mr. O’Brady and Mr. Rudd progress through the final leg of the route, after almost two months alone on the ice, the team at The Times has begun to hold its breath. “I’m worried about them more so now, because this is the time when they could have problems,” Mr. Skolnick said. “It’s hard not to think about what they’re going through.” The memory of Henry Worsley, a friend of Mr. Rudd’s who died while attempting the same journey two years ago, is never far from mind.

And while the danger is very real, so is the prospect of making history, of completing a journey no one has ever managed. “If there’s a cooler thing going on right now than two guys ski-racing across Antarctica, I’d like to see it,” Matt Futterman, a deputy sports editor, said. “It’s the most amazing thing you can imagine.” And so The Times will continue to monitor both men’s progress, with regular updates as they approach the finish, which is expected in early January.

Meanwhile, at the bottom of the world, the two men struggle on.

Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter.