A week ago the Municipal Council of Paris gave President Wilson the keys to the City of Paris, but they neglected to present him with what is far more essential, a good map book, with which to find his way about the city’s intricate streets. And so yesterday morning he enjoyed the privileges of his new citizenship by getting lost. Anxious friends of the President need not be worried, however, for he was found by two small boys who pointed out the way for him.

The President and Mrs. Wilson started out unaccompanied yesterday morning for a walk. From the time they left the Hôtel Murat until they returned they were recognized by no one but the two young Paris urchins. They were enjoying their incognito so much that they neglected to take note of the wanderings of Paris streets. They are not now sure where they went. They stopped to ask the French boys the right direction. The response was very prompt and courteous. Then, to the surprise of the President and Mrs. Wilson, who did not think they were recognized, two small hands came out under the capes the boys were wearing: “And now, Mr. President, won’t you shake hands with us?” The hand-shaking was cordial on both sides, and Pierre and Jean went away with something to tell their grandchildren.

Walk on Boulevards.

In the afternoon, President and Mrs. Wilson, walking part of the way, visited the boulevards of Paris and went to Brentano’s book store on the avenue de l’Opéra, where the President bought some books. This time, however, they were recognized, and the President was greatly impressed by the courtesy of the French people, who greeted him quietly as he passed, and who seemed anxious to permit him to enjoy his right as a simple citizen of Paris.

The President spent most of the day at his desk, where business had accumulated. In the afternoon he held conferences with Mr. Herbert Hoover, the Allied Food Adminstrator, and Ambassador Sharp. He will be at his desk most of to-day, and to-night leaves Paris for Chaumont. He will be met at Chaumont on Christmas morning by General Pershing; General Wircel, the French commander of the zone; the Prefect and Mayor of Chaumont; French and American guards of honor; and an American band.