There are other clever ways of revealing your baby’s gender. If you have a few hours free, you can find online videos of parents shooting off blue or pink water from fire hoses to announce the joyful news or slicing open a cake filled with colored marbling. One family invited friends over and had their pet alligator bite open a colored balloon. I like that one, but as I watched it I had reason afresh to consider the state of Florida, a place that the more I learn about it, the less I understand.

I remember when the obstetrician revealed the genders of our own children, back in the day, and I recall well the sense of wonder the news brought us. Knowing the sex of our child felt as if we had cut in half the number of possible futures our family might find itself in. There’s a way in which, in the heart of pregnancy, that was very comforting.

But celebrating a child’s gender before it’s born is a tricky business. It sets expectations for who that child will be. It also leaves the unfortunate impression that gender is the most important thing to celebrate about that child.

And sometimes it’s just plain wrong.

As a late-transitioning transgender person, I’ve experienced both sides of a lot of this world. I have been both a best man and a matron of honor (and I can tell you that being a matron of honor is a lot more fun; being best man felt a little bit like being a security guard at a very sketchy nightclub). I’ve attended bachelor parties as well as bridal showers. (In this instance, I’d give the nod to bachelor parties, although that may be only because the one I went to in my boy days featured a guy named Amazing Larry riding a unicycle while juggling bowling pins and wearing a leotard.) At the bridal shower, my girlfriends and I mostly said ooh and ahh as we opened up boxes of high-end lingerie.

Which was fun, but let’s be honest: Victoria’s Secret is no match for an Amazing Larry.

As a transgender person I thought my eyes were pretty wide open when it came to gender issues. I tried to avoid defining either of my children based on their sex and encouraged them to find their own path, wherever it might lead.

But I was still caught off guard when my older child came out to me as transgender, at age 23. The news stunned me and left me, for a little while, unable to speak.

Then I put my arms around her, just as my own mother had put her arms around me, and told her that I loved her, just as my own mother had said those words to me.