Readers wrote in to point out that women in some Western states had had the right to vote for years before the amendment made the franchise national. Though it wasn’t strictly an error, it was noted for the future : “I'll share this with the editors so that when we talk about women's suffrage in the future, we'll be sure to point out that several states allowed women to vote before the 19th Amendment,” Ms. Jacquette responded.

Typically, Mr. Montague either responds to emails informing a reader why something was correct the way we had it — citing the paper’s stylebook and Webster’s Dictionary or even summarizing internal newsroom discussions over the email — or forwards the submission to the appropriate person in the newsroom. Take, for instance: One reader wrote in to say that a crossword puzzle mischaracterized the colors of Lucky Charms marshmallows. In response, The Times sent a link to a YouTube video showing that new colors had been added to the cereal.

“It’s nice when you can change someone’s mind,” Mr. Montague said.

But some answers aren’t so simple. Recently, a reader questioned a line by Dennis Overbye, The Times’s cosmic affairs correspondent, about the size of the observable universe . “We're just sitting there wondering, does anyone really know?” Mr. Montague said.

The submission email address first appeared in The Times in print on Oct. 23, 2000, with a call for “comments and suggestions, as well as information about errors that call for correction,” the note said. “Starting this week, an editor will respond to messages emailed to nytnews@nytimes.com.”

And for a period of time, The Times answered 100 percent of those emails. This meant that Greg Brock, the editor who oversaw the inbox before Ms. Jacquette took over in 2017, checked the inbox almost obsessively — nearly every day for 11 years, including weekends and holidays.

“I just thought it was really important,” Mr. Brock said by phone from Mississippi, where he retired and works as a journalism professor. “Based on the notes we got back, what the readers got out of it was that they increasingly realized there were real human beings at The New York Times who cared and would actually talk to them.”

Mr. Hawkinson, the reader who wrote in, said he felt it was his civic duty to monitor The Times for errors. He’s been a frequent emailer since the early 2000s. “I believe in journalism,” he wrote in an email, “and I believe it’s important to get it right.”