Progress isn’t always bad.

While on that excursion into the country, we visited Oun’s childhood home in the village of Na Yang. He’s from the Tai Lue tribe, part of the Lao Loum, or lowland, ethnic group. As we arrived, his mother and aunt were spending a rainy morning under their high-stilted house, weaving intricate cotton tapestries. (His village is known for being the finest manipulators of cotton in the country.) His father, a blacksmith, showed us his shop, where he once almost died heating scrap metal that contained gunpowder residue from the Vietnam War. He also grows white, juicy worms, which he sells at the market as snacks.

They invited us upstairs where we all sat on the floor and enjoyed a delicious home-cooked meal featuring steamed pumpkin and garlicky eggplant. Oun’s father showed us how to ball up sticky rice with our hands and use it as a sponge to sop up chili paste.

Oun’s uncle, Khamsouk, who also took me around, was the first from their family to leave the village. He was a 14-year-old second grader at a primary school that didn’t go past second grade when he moved to Luang Prabang to join a monastery — which was the only path for a boy without money to get an education. He spent 10 years as a novice monk, teaching himself English by listening to the radio, before a French friend of his abbot offered him a job as a tour guide, and he quit the temple. When he’d earned enough money, he bought a house big enough to hold all his nieces and nephews, and encouraged them, one by one, to leave the village and get an education. Oun was one of 14 children who had lived with him.

On the boat ride home, after seeing Sone, we visited a different kind of village, belonging to the Khmu people from the Lao Theung ethnic minority, who are animists, worshiping animal spirits. Everyone was hard at work doing something: child-rearing, laundry, weaving baskets, cooking coconut rice in bamboo cylinders. Boys played soccer with a rattan ball. Some carried slingshots they’d later use to hunt birds. I acquired a shadow in the form of a sweet young girl in an orange shawl, quiet, but curious. When I spoke to her, she just smiled back and Oun said that’s because she’s never spoken. The village believes it has something to do with evil spirits when she was born. Although Laos is Communist, medical care is expensive, so there was never a thought to take her to a doctor.

As we walked around, I took pictures of the children, who clamored around and squealed to see themselves on camera . There was never a possibility that I could send them a copy or tag them on social media. They were simply happy to be seen.

On my last night in town, Khamsouk invited me to Phamsai Houng, the riverside restaurant he and his wife run, for a feast of fish laab seasoned with lemongrass, and a never-ending flow of Beerlao, the national brew, and Lao Lao, a grain whiskey that will make you forget what memory is. We were joined by another monk-turned-guide, Serd, who runs the Lao Horizons Travel Agency. We drank and laughed into the night. “I hope you leave here feeling like family,” he said.