1D: A new clue for CATAWBA. I knew it as the grape variety, but here it’s clued for the first time as the “Carolina tribe that allied with the colonists in the American Revolution.”

32D: It has been quite a while since we’ve seen CONEY ISLAND in a New York Times crossword puzzle, and personally, I’m glad to have it back. I spent a lot of time there as a child. My most vivd memory, other than the amusement park rides, was my introduction to Nathan’s French fries, those crinkle-cut morsels which were served in a fragile, oil-drenched cardboard boat, and which functioned primarily as a delivery system for ketchup.

51D: Nicely veiled capital clue. “Hall of fame” sounds on the surface like we are supposed to be thinking of a place of recognition, but the word “Hall” is capitalized for another reason beside being at the beginning of the clue. It’s meant to be a surname, and the answer is MONTY Hall of “Let’s Make a Deal” game show fame. The long-running game show is still on the air, hosted by Wayne Brady.

58D: Nice to see an alternative clue to ARA Parseghian, not that there is anything wrong with cluing the entry to the coach. TIL that ARA is a small constellation that represents an altar made by Zeus.

Today’s Theme

The black square “arrow head” is actually a plane being followed by its CONTRAIL (the revealer at 40D), as demonstrated by the five CON rebuses wedged between the trailing black squares. If you weren’t sure about this, the “arrow” points directly at the entry SKYWRITER at 17A.

I tumbled to the rebus at 38A’s EMOTI(CON), after realizing that EMOJIS didn’t work (That would have left 22D with a terminal J, which was unlikely.). Next, I got (CON)ES, which helped me guess that the CONs would follow each other diagonally. I did get stuck on 46A, because I don’t refer to a call-in meeting as a TELE(CON), but I eventually figured it out.

Constructor Notes

Mary Lou Guizzo: Initially, this CONtrail puzzle, with the visual element in the black boxes of the grid, 5 rebus squares and 66 squares devoted to theme answers, seemed like a good idea. However, it became one of the more labor intensive 15x15 grids I’ve constructed. Looking back through my email correspondence with Jeff, Will and Sam, I found six chains with numerous exchanges. Needless to say, trying to fill the grid cleanly with all these constraints was a challenge, so I REALLY hope you enjoyed the solve! Thanks to Jeff for accepting the challenge of working on this puzzle and to Will and Sam on their acceptance and patience in finessing it into its final form. Jeff Chen: Mary Lou has such great tenacity and perseverance. She comes up with some of the toughest concepts of any collaborator, and she doesn’t give up when they prove to require dozens of hours to iterate. Never say die!

The Tipping Point

Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.

Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.

Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here.

Your thoughts?