The Twitter account @spelacchio started cracking Hollywood-themed jokes. It claimed that Spelacchio had been away acting in the United States. That it taught Brad Pitt to believe in himself. That Catherine Zeta Jones was its friend. That Christian Bale had asked for dieting advice. This tree was no Spelacchio, even if its head shot claimed to bear its autograph. This was a braggart and an impostor. What started as a spontaneous outburst of collective self-derision has been turned into a corporate gimmick: Netflix Italy is just trying to profit from the most famous, and most sorrowful, Christmas tree Rome has ever known. (Watch its promotional video and cringe.)

At first, the new tree seemed to have its share of troubles, too. It was briefly called Spezzacchio — a wordplay that roughly means Broken One — because its branches had to be cut off before it was transported to Rome and then were reattached with nails. But it now stands 65 feet tall and has some 60,000 lights and hundreds of baubles, many of them stamped with a red N. If Spelacchio was approachable, the branches and ornaments of this year’s tree are protected by a giant net.

And so much for unscripted effusion: Netflix has designated an area for taking selfies with the tree, set off by metal barriers, and has provided a sledge as prop. The publicity stunt is said to have cost the company some 376,000 euros (nearly $430,000). When I walked past the tree on Christmas Eve, I didn’t see anybody even looking at it, let alone taking photos.

Netflix has also just released a holiday movie by the Vanzina brothers. It’s a classic commedia all’italiana with a seasonal twist: A bunch of inept Italian politicians accompany the prime minister on a state visit to Hungary, mistresses in tow, make depressingly tame jokes and encounter a dead Santa in a hotel room. The film is called “Five Star Christmas” — a bizarre echo of the Five Star Movement. I still can’t figure out if that’s accidental or deliberate and an attempt at officially sanctioned political satire.

Some of the politicians in the film turn out to have doctored their C.V.s to hide a lack of relevant professional qualifications, just like some of our real politicians today. On the other hand, Netflix and Ms. Raggi worked hand in hand to prepare this year’s Christmas-tree extravaganza. And according to polls, Italians seem quite satisfied with their new national government, despite its excesses, scandals and all.