It’s a bravura performance in which war becomes farce, history becomes burlesque. Apostol thrusts us into a vertiginous narrative of “stories within stories within stories,” as the novel itself, in one of countless meta moments, has it. Another: “It will be set in 1901, or maybe 1972, or maybe 2018. … There will be unapologetic uses of generic types, actors with duplicating roles. Anachronisms, false starts, scarlet clues, a noirish insistence on the pathetic pursuit of human truths will pervade its miserable (quite thin) plot, and while the mystery will seem unsolved, to some it will provide the satisfaction of unrelieved despair.”

Image

Apostol, who grew up in the Philippines and now lives in the United States, is the author of three previous novels, most recently “Gun Dealers’ Daughter,” her American debut. (Her first two novels, published in the Philippines, won that country’s national book award.) She has written elsewhere about her preoccupation with what it means to be an artist from a colonized country, a place “where history has been created by the words of its occupiers,” and about her struggle with “the sense that who you are is a fiction, the result of texts constructed by others.” In “Insurrecto,” we find author and characters attempting to wrest history from the conquerors’ hold.

The novel brims with plot. Yet plot is almost beside the point. More interesting are Apostol’s many women, stand-ins and doppelgängers whose stories intercut and complicate. In addition to Magsalin and Chiara: Virginie, Chiara’s beautiful, fragile mother, drifting through the “labyrinth of stations” that make up her life, to whom the Philippines is “a Wonderland world, … where the names you give are jokes to others, and your ignorance is the moral lesson of the story.” Cassandra, a glamorous photographer who descends on Balangiga (“a silken pest in a canoe”), winds up bearing witness to the carnage and, like her classical counterpart, is destined to be disbelieved, “for after all she is only a woman.” Also Caz, who mourns the sudden, inexplicable death of her filmmaker lover, a man whose life was a series of “locked-room puzzles.” And Casiana, the tactical genius and savior to the women of Balangiga — to whom Apostol, in a grand feat of revision, assigns agency and dignity.

The Philippines of “Insurrecto” is wild and lush, beset by cruelty, boisterous in its embrace of the tacky relics of late-20th-century globalism — a place where Elvis ballads seem to “spring from the bamboo groves”; where the news is full of bodies “piling up at the garbage dumps, in the slums, near schoolyards”; where karaoke singers, possessed by a “maniacal insomnia,” wail drunkenly into the night.