One of the most satisfying memes of the last few years celebrates macaroni and cheese. Someone on social media will write “I made him mac and cheese …” or some such and share a revolting photo of a gelatinous dish of gray noodle slop. Then everyone will freak out and pile on. Sometimes the post is a joke, sometimes it’s real, and also sometimes it’s wings or meatloaf. In the case of Keisha Lance Bottoms, who also happens to be the mayor of Atlanta, it was just a sincere picture showing off her Christmas mac and cheese, to the extreme scorn and horror of the internet. Sure it did look a little dry, but who among us, you know?

The first notable mac and cheese posting went wild in October 2017, with an infamously horrid mac and cheese brought to an office potluck. In the rollicking five financial quarters between these two mac and cheese crises, photographs of earnestly made bad food and also trolling imitations (usually using stolen photographs) proliferated and became indistinguishable. It has been this year pleasurably impossible to tell what was a case of Auntie Gladys going fully wrong at the church social and what was someone stealing a grody pic off Facebook to snatch some likes. For us out here mainlining our Instagram and Facebook and Twitter feeds like it was our paid job — long days pickaxing for weak LOLs, followed by thin, ill dreams — the experience of real and fake was essentially identical.

It’s now more impossible than ever to discover what a photograph means or where it came from, whether it’s of a dreary Christmas side dish, or a selfie on a volcano, or a couple posing holiday-style with their child on their driveway, but then it turns out the driveway is not even theirs and also, who knows about the child? ( Yes, this apparently just happened .) How sincere or manipulative is a photo? What garbage dump is just beyond the frame of that beautiful sunset? Whose culture does a photograph represent or betray? (The depths of reasonable interracial fury surrounding mac and cheese are very real.) Which of these beautiful or gross photographs is an advertisement? Was the person being photographed the product, and if so, how were we paying? Similarly, who made the photographable environment, and was it a marketing agency? (Buddy, it was.) And a question that bubbles up again and again: Who else was present, and what person or machine captured the moment?

Which brings us to this collection of our best published photographs of the year, as chosen by our photo editors. To me, a few suffer without context, but perhaps those will be your very favorites. (Besides, in many other cases, the photos were more exceptional than the texts they accompanied.) That’s the joy of living in a time when we are not only all informed consumers of photography but also, with Instagram a billion members strong, nearly all practicing photographers ourselves. We all make the side dishes; we all take the photographs; and also we all stunt on other people’s photographs and side dishes.