It’s fine to have warm, supportive relationships with your co-workers. But remember the context. That means that you stay really clear about the fact that it’s O.K. to look out for yourself and not fall victim to a mind-set in which you’re living at work. It’s O.K. to say, “No, I’m not going to work 60 hours this week.” And know that it’s not a personal betrayal if you decide to move on. Read more >>>

An analysis of 26 studies confirmed that, yes, work friendships are great.

Yet having and keeping friends at work can feel more complicated than these studies let on. Say you’re leading a big project, and your friend’s contribution is a total mess. Or maybe your friend is not doing her share of the work, which means you are too often doing it for her. What are you supposed to say? What are you supposed to do? And how can you say or do that without damaging your friendship? Read more >>>

When was the last time you had a good cry at work? Maybe you bombed a project, or got some harsh feedback you didn’t see coming, but it happens. We’re all human. What we need to realize is that it’s really not a big deal: Just under half of employees have cried at work at some point, according to a study from this year, which also found that about 75 percent of chief financial officers thought crying every so often is totally normal.

Still, a lot of us have hang-ups about it. But we really shouldn’t, said Alison Green, who runs the career advice blog Ask a Manager and published a book this year with the same title. Read more >>>

Winners are just people who know when to quit — and do it often. We’ve all heard the saying “Winners never quit, and quitters never win.” But what if we’ve been looking at quitting all wrong? What if, rather than a step backward, quitting with intention can be a way to leap toward your goals? Enter “strategic quitting,” a counterintuitive approach that helps you free up time, money and energy for the things that matter. (Another way to look at this: learning the power of “no.”)