For a lot of people it does work, and it can be good motivation. But it’s unhealthy to go into the new year with the assumption that you’re lacking in something, or that you need to change. I don’t think there’s any right or wrong resolution to set. I also don’t think it is right or wrong to even set a resolution in the first place.

Omar: Would you recommend this kind of reflection to young professionals and college students, particularly at this time of the year?

Tim: Setting habits around things that you want to achieve is the only way that you’ll achieve anything. There’s an amazing book by a former New York Times reporter named Charles Duhigg called “The Power of Habit.” He asserts that we need to set routines and habits that are going to most benefit us but that can replace the routines and habits that we want to do away with. In a famous example he uses in his book, he noticed that he’d put on 15 or 10 pounds in a year and he couldn’t really figure out why. Then he noticed that he had a habit of getting up every afternoon and walking around the office to socialize with his co-workers, but he would always buy a cookie. He had a daily cookie habit. He wanted to replace that habit. What he did was establish the social satisfaction of talking with his co-workers and getting up and walking around as a reward.

Habits and routines are crucial to achieving goals and resolutions. So you have to figure out ways to build habits around the things that you want to achieve. For example, if your goal is to run more this year, when you get home after work, instead of taking off your shoes and sitting on the couch to rest for a minute before you go run, you could change into your running gear and get straight back out. Eventually, if you do that consistently enough, it will build a habit. It will become second nature and you won’t have to think about it. You’ll just get home, change into your running gear, and get out running.

That is really key to building strong habits: You want to take decision making out of the equation so you just start doing the thing you want to do rather than having to make the decision to do it.

Omar: That’s smart. What resolutions would you recommend to people early in their careers?

Tim: That is difficult to answer because I think resolutions and goals are so personal and specific. But I can tell you that for me, one of my resolutions this year is to finish writing a book. So the plan is, when I wake up, I can check Instagram or whatever, but afterward I want to sit down and write for 30 minutes every single morning.

Something that works for me in my day job is to set aside a certain time around the same time of day when I know that I’m going to be writing. I want to translate that idea and thinking into creating a habit of writing 30 minutes every morning no matter what. The goal for that is that I’ll wake up and know I have 10 minutes to check Instagram and then it’s time to write for half an hour.