Mollie Tibbetts

In July, Mollie Tibbetts, an Iowa college student, was killed while running. An undocumented immigrant was charged, and her death became fodder for political rage. But it also restarted a conversation about men who attack women while we do something that’s supposed to be good for us. “Just as our bodies learned how to sprint around the curve of a track, our muscles learned to tense up when men honked their horns as they passed us. And just as we learned to use that nervous feeling in our gut before a race to propel us across the finish line, we also recognized the gut feeling that told us a trail wasn’t safe to run on alone,” Talya Minsberg wrote. I’ve been asked to comment on “women in peril!” stories about runners being attacked since, and I won’t because the focus is almost always in the wrong place. As I wrote then, “If your response is to suggest ways women can be safe while running, realize that puts that onus on us, and blames us for it happening. The only ones to blame are the people attacking women for doing something so ordinary, and a society where it has become so common that, unless a tragedy is thrown into the chum of anti-immigration commentary, it barely registers anymore.”

Is There One Right Runner Body Shape?

Right before the New York City Marathon, Lindsay Crouse wrote about the pro runner Allie Kieffer, who had been told she was too big to run marathons professionally (and has since proved those people wrong). It opened up a conversation about whether an ideal body shape for an athlete exists at all.

Sports Bras

When I started getting texts and messages about a brewing controversy at Rowan University, I thought “Rowan? Really?” Rowan is not that far from where I live, and not the biggest school around, but was suddenly in the news: The cross-country teams had been booted from the track that rings the football field, and one runner said it was because the women were running in sports bras. Turns out there had been an informal policy that athletes must wear shirts during practice — though a clarification of the rule has changed this to allow women to run in sports bras only.

What do you think we’ll be talking about in 2019? Let me know! I’m on Twitter @byjenamiller.

Run Well, and Happy New Year!

— Jen

Jen A. Miller is the author of “Running: A Love Story.”