I LOVE YOU MORE THAN… By Taye Diggs, read by the author. (Macmillan Audio.) Diggs, the Broadway actor and singer, narrates his own children’s book about a father separated from his son, reassuring him that even though he’s not around, “you are always in my mind and my heart.” WHERE WE GO FROM HERE By Bernie Sanders, read by the author. (Macmillan Audio.) Starting from the moment he conceded the Democratic primary and moving into the Trump years, Sanders tells the story of what he has been doing to advance his political agenda. JEFF WAYNE’S THE WAR OF THE WORLDS: THE MUSICAL DRAMA By H. G. Wells, music by Jeff Wayne, read by a full cast. (Audible.) Wells’s novel about an alien invasion (turned into an iconic radio drama by Orson Welles) is revisited here. Wayne, who was first inspired by Wells’s book in 1978 to create a prog-rock concept album, now puts sounds and text together in this original production. BROKEN GROUND By Val McDermid, read by Cathleen McCarron. (Recorded Books.) A crime novel that begins with a search for buried treasure and the discovery of a body with a bullet between its eyes — a story whose twists and turns take place on the Scottish Highlands. A WRINKLE IN TIME By Madeleine L’Engle, read by the author. (Listening Library.) In honor of L’Engle’s 100th birthday, this archival audiobook, capturing a 1993 reading of her beloved book, has been newly restored.

“How do you make a page turner out of a story with an ending everyone already knows, an ending moreover that left millions of people stumbling around like zombies for days? I’ve had no appetite to relive the 2016 presidential campaign in all the books and articles that have since come out, and I wasn’t going to read my colleague Amy Chozick’s account of her time on the Clinton campaign bus, CHASING HILLARY, either. But I’m a sucker for gossip. And it was as advertised, full of intrigue and juice and all the other numbing and tantalizing details of life someplace I’ve never been and hope never to be — on the campaign trail. What becomes clear is how much Chozick wanted Hillary the campaigner to be Hillary the feminist torchbearer she imagined her to be, the Hillary who made that speech about women’s rights in Beijing, who traveled all those hundreds of thousands of miles as secretary of state, the Wellesley Hillary exhorting her classmates with a bullhorn. But it was not to be, and Chozick does not shrink from her own share of the blame for campaign coverage that focused on Hillary’s emails rather than more substantive issues.”

— Dennis Overbye, science writer