Jim Patterson, a Republican state assemblyman from Fresno, said the agency needed a radical overhaul to regain the trust of the public. He expressed concern that the agency will not be able to handle the coming rush of California residents seeking Real IDs ahead of the October 2020 deadline.

“The D.M.V. is failing in its fundamental mission in respect to driver’s licenses and registrations,” said Mr. Patterson, who has become one of the agency’s most vocal critics. “Between now and 2020, you’re going to get hundreds of thousands of people rushing through the D.M.V. to get their ID by the deadline, going through a system that is totally broken. The infrastructure of the D.M.V. is simply unable to cope.”

Mr. Patterson urged Mr. Newsom and the State Legislature to prioritize fixing the D.M.V. in the upcoming year. He also said he intended to push for an audit of the agency when the Legislature reconvenes in January, adding that he would like to see Elaine Howell, the state auditor, take an approach similar to her audit of the state’s High Speed Rail Authority.

“We won’t get to the solutions if we’re too scared to find the problems,” Mr. Patterson said. “I don’t think we get to the reforms we need unless the next governor and the Legislature put their heads together.”

Issuers of so-called Real ID cards must follow verification regulations outlined by the Real ID Act of 2005, which was passed in accordance with recommendations by the 9/11 Commission. By October 2020, everyone in the country will need a Real ID to board commercial aircraft without a passport. California began issuing Real IDs in January 2018.

The state D.M.V. modeled its Real ID residency verification system after one used in Wisconsin, which required individuals to provide one form of proof in person at the D.M.V., such as a utility bill or a lease. An identification card would then be mailed to the primary address listed by the individual seeking the ID; receipt of the card was considered sufficient secondary proof of residency.

But in November, the D.M.V. was told in a letter from the Department of Homeland Security that its system was not compliant with federal requirements. Beginning in April, individuals will have to provide two forms of proof of identity in person.