Pay attention. That might be the theme to this week’s recommended titles, if we had to pick one. (We don’t, really. But we enjoy the challenge, so what the heck: The value of sustained attention it is.) Attention is expressly the subject of Uwe Johnson’s vast diaristic novel “Anniversaries,” as Parul Sehgal notes in her impressed and impressive review. I haven’t read Johnson’s book yet; I’m still stalled out in the Nighttown section of “Ulysses,” so in my side reading lately I tend to favor digestible chunks of essays or stories. But I’ve heard good things about it for months, and Parul’s review convinces me I should add it to my list. You should, too. You can start right away, if you’re not reading “Ulysses.”

Sustained attention is also at the core of three essay collections this week, at least implicitly: Elisa Gabbert’s “The Word Pretty,” Ingrid Sischy’s “Nothing Is Lost” and John McPhee’s “The Patch,” all of which highlight their authors’ knack for observation and reflection. Helen Schulman’s novel “Come With Me” is a bright techno-dystopian family story about the seductions of virtual reality, with an inherent warning to stop taking nonvirtual reality for granted. And Richard Beard’s memoir, “The Day That Went Missing,” becomes an extended homage to the act of attention, as he tries to uncover the details of his younger brother’s death on a family vacation years before. Finally, there’s a biography of the architect Philip Johnson and a horror-thriller hybrid from the suspense writer M. R. Carey. Thank you for your attention.

Gregory Cowles

Senior Editor, Books

ANNIVERSARIES: From a Year in the Life of Gesine Cresspahl: Volumes 1 and 2, by Uwe Johnson. Translated by Damion Searls. (New York Review Books, $39.95.) Johnson’s nearly 1,700-page masterpiece was originally published in Germany, in four volumes between 1970 and 1983. It has now been translated into English in full, for the first time. The novel takes the form of a yearlong diary, covering parts of 1967 and 1968, by the enigmatic, rather brilliant Gesine Cresspahl, born in Germany the year Hitler came to power. She lives in New York City with her small daughter, Marie. Gesine is haunted — by her family’s embrace of Nazism, her mother’s suicide, the death of her daughter’s father. “‘Anniversaries’ is not difficult reading, but it is painstaking,” our critic Parul Sehgal writes. “The story is tangled, the characters traumatized and suspicious of language. It requires a hard chair, a fresh pen and your full attention — for attention is its great subject.”

THE WORD PRETTY, by Elisa Gabbert. (Black Ocean, $18.95.) In this collection of brief essays, Gabbert, who is also a poet, draws inspiration for her musings from subjects like group selfies and the psychology of dreams and YouTube videos “designed specifically to make people cry.” But more than half of the book is explicitly devoted to books themselves; to life as both a purposeful and a serendipitous reader. “The casualness of this collection is one of its attractions,” our reviewer John Williams writes. “It doesn’t strain after anything. It doesn’t have airs; and if it could speak, it would likely charmingly admit to its own imperfections. A mixture of depth and diversion, it makes you wish that, like a reliable band, Gabbert might publish a similar slender volume every year or two.”