More than 2,600 migrant children were separated from their parents after crossing the Southwest border, the majority of them this year, under a Trump administration policy that was meant to discourage migration to the United States. Most of the parents were held in immigration detention facilities, while their children were shipped to shelters across the country.

For those who have been reunited, the effects of that separation are far from over. These are the stories of a few families who spent several weeks or months apart.

Yuri Urbina Amaya and son Jesús, 6 From: Honduras Living in: Oregon Separated: Two months

Jesús is too young to recount the details of his experience in a shelter for immigrant children. For now, all he can do is ask why he was taken there and remind his mother that he missed her. Neither one of them knows exactly where he was held.

It was the first time they had ever been apart — an experience that Jesús never wants to replicate. As the family prepared for Christmas, he pushed his way into the kitchen to stand beside his mother, offering to help her prepare chicken and tamales. She shooed him out into the living room and encouraged him to instead be a kid and play.

Edil Yovany Figueroa Caballero and son Edil Yahir, 10 From: Honduras Living in: Louisiana Separated: One and a half months

Thanks to his younger cousins, with whom he lives now, Edil Yahir is learning how to be an American. The most important thing, they told him, is to respect his teachers and learn perfect English. He’s proud that he can already count to 100.

Sometimes bad memories resurface, like when his father went to his first court date in August. Edil Yahir wasn’t allowed to go in case anything went wrong. He cried and begged his father not to go, scared that he might not come home.

Rosayra Pablo Cruz and sons Jordy, 16, Fernando, 5 From: Guatemala Living in: New York Separated: Three months

Fernando brought a stuffed green dinosaur with him from Guatemala. After they took the boy away, Rosayra spent a day hugging the stuffed animal and crying. At the detention center in Arizona where she was later taken, a guard told her she would have to turn it over, too. Her sons Fernando and Jordy were sent to a foster home in New York. During their weekly phone calls, Fernando would ask his mother about the dinosaur, which he called T-Rex. When she was eventually released, with the T-Rex in her arms, she flew to New York, where the boys are now enrolled in school.

Cindy Mayumi Guzman Nunez and son Jostin, 8 From: Honduras Living in: Florida Separated: One and a half months

When immigration agents took Jostin from his mother, the little boy went quiet. When they took his mother, they also took his voice, and he’s rarely spoken above a whisper since then, prompting guards and other children at a detention center where he was held to ask what was wrong with him.

After they crossed the border together, Cindy was shuffled to court and told that Jostin would be waiting for her when she returned. Instead, she was placed in a cell with other mothers, who were crying because their children had also been taken from them. When the mothers asked what was going on, officials responded, “I don’t know.”

Jose and son Hugo, 16 From: Guatemala Living in: Massachusetts Separated: One and a half months

Hugo watched younger children melt into tears, bang on the walls and scream for their parents. In the shelter where he was held, the staff responded with threats: If the children kept misbehaving, they were told, they might never see their families again.

Hugo wondered quietly to himself whether his father had returned to Guatemala without him. They spoke by phone for the first time a month after they were separated. By then, both had sunk into a depression that still hangs over them.

Yolany Padilla and son Jelsin, 7 From: Honduras Living in: Washington Separated: Two months

After she was separated from her son, Yolany was sent to a federal prison in Washington because immigration detention centers were full. The only proof she had that she had entered the United States with a child was the little case that held her son’s glasses.When they were reunited in July, her son’s glasses were scratched, but intact. He was thinner and nervous. Their moods have since improved. They are adjusting to the climate of the Northeast and wearing coats virtually every day.

Mirian Hernández Almendares and son Erick, 13 From: Honduras Living in: Texas Separated: Two months

Erick became a star student in immigration detention because of how quickly he learned English. He can introduce himself, ask to go to the bathroom and thank other children for playing with him.

On the day he and his mother were released from custody, Erick said he was most excited to keep learning so that Americans could understand him better, and when he was big enough, to start working. But first, he planned to call his younger sisters, ages 8 and 12, in Honduras, to tell them, “We made it. We’re O.K., that I love them a lot, and to take care.”

Martha Aguero Muñoz and daughters Jackie, 13, and Adeila, 11 From: Mexico Living in: Texas Separated: Six months

Jackie and Adeila could be considered lucky. They were released from federal custody only a week after they were taken from their mother — much faster than most other children who were caught up in the “zero tolerance” policy this past summer.

For the next six months, the sisters lived in Wisconsin with their uncles, who added money for phone calls to their mother’s jail account. They spoke to her almost every night. She cried on Mother’s Day when she opened a package of drawings from them. They also sent her a bracelet, though it was confiscated by the staff at the detention facility.

Luz Maldonado Velasquez and son Luiz, 16 From: Honduras Living in: New York Separated: Five months

Guards at a detention center handed Luz a tattered black shirt when they told her that she was going to be deported without Luiz. Luiz had worn the shirt across the border, and Luz cried into the garment until it looked more like a rag. “It was the worst day of my life,” she said. Her lawyer intervened, allowing her to stay in the United States while her asylum case was processed.

It had been difficult for Luz to leave her six other children behind in Honduras, but at least she knew that they were safe and loved at home with their grandmother. She had no such reassurance about Luiz while they were separated. “I couldn’t even talk to him,” she said, “I didn’t know if he was O.K. It’s impossible to explain that feeling.”

Renardo and Dora Martinez, with son Adonias, 6, and daughter Salem, 3 From: Guatemala Living in: Massachusetts Separated: Two and a half months

When Adonias Martinez Garcia, 6, was separated from his father at the border in Arizona, the little boy screamed and struck an American official, attempting to wring free.

Other boys at the shelter in Chicago where Adonias was held said that he was injected with something that sedated him when he acted up. In Massachusetts, where his family is now living, he had a meltdown during a visit to a clinic for a cough, begging for “no vaccines.” Another day he became anxious, asking repeatedly, “Are they taking me back to Chicago?”