Not long ago I took a new job, leaving my old company after 18 years because it was restructuring and I felt I needed a change. My new boss has a really bothersome habit. He can be extremely condescending to me about something minor that is not entirely my fault — and then apologetic afterward. For example, the other day I didn’t bring all necessary papers to a meeting, because he didn’t give me sufficient notice. He chastised me to never do that again, and ordered me to go and fetch all the missing papers. But later that day he came by my office to apologize. This is the third time that this has happened! I have not been treated this way since the summer jobs of my youth. I don’t know if I should say something to him the next time it happens, arrange a separate conversation with him or just go to human resources. I don’t think he is going to change, and I’ve learned that my position has had high turnover. I just want to try to make it better before I look for a new job. ANONYMOUS

Starting somewhere new after working at one company for 18 years inevitably entails some adjustments and bumpiness. So before you make a rash decision to bail on this new gig, make at least some effort to figure out whether you and your new boss can adjust to each other.

Certainly if you say nothing then nothing will change. Maybe start by diplomatically addressing the issue the next time he shows up to apologize. Express appreciation — but make it clear that these incidents leave you confused. And since he has just apologized, risk putting him on the spot: Ask for reassurance that he’s happy with your work.

If the issue persists, you can go to human resources, but do so in the spirit of seeking input, not just leveling a grievance. If this manager has trouble hanging on to employees, H.R. will understand the problem without your having to make an actual complaint.

But don’t convince yourself that the situation is hopeless without even attempting a remedy. Perhaps with time you can learn this manager’s patterns as he learns yours; he’ll become less likely to snap at you, and you’ll be less likely to take it seriously when he does.