The basic political problem is that the climate movement still does not have the strength of numbers to overcome entrenched opposition and put in the kind of stiff-and-rising taxes we would need to do the job. The oil companies may claim they want carbon pricing, but a subset of them spent more than $30 million in Washington State to kill the tax proposal there, twice as much money as the proponents were able to raise in support of their intelligent, carefully designed plan.

Damn the oil companies if you will, but they persuaded 56 percent of the voters to take their side, carrying every county in the state but three. What that vote, and the French protests, tell us is that any proposal to raise energy prices is going to run into a buzz saw of opposition, including from working-class people who already feel like they are being mistreated.

The political difficulties are not the only issue with carbon pricing, though. Even in theory, the idea is expected to work in some economic sectors but not in others, yet the fetishists hold it up as the magic answer to all problems.

For example, it is not at all clear that raising prices at the pump is the best way to reduce emissions from driving. European drivers already pay $6 to $7 a gallon for fuel, most of that in taxes, yet governments there have found that they still need efficiency regulations for cars. Moreover, if you want people to leave their cars at home, you have to give them alternative ways to get to work, and a hike in fuel taxes by itself does nothing to accomplish that. Much of the American public does not have access to public transit of any kind, and even in transit-dependent cities like New York and Washington, the subways have been allowed to fall apart.

The single most important climate policy in the world might be the efficiency regulations that the American government imposes on cars and trucks, which are under attack by the Trump administration. Climate advocates are fighting to defend them in court, but we also need concerned citizens to crawl all over Congress, pushing legislators to stop the rollback. What are many of us doing instead? Trying to persuade Congress to pass a carbon tax, when the political conditions to achieve that simply do not exist.

Here is more evidence that a carbon price is no magic bullet: One of the biggest climate problems is poorly constructed buildings that waste energy. A carbon price will not solve that problem, for the elementary reason that the people who put up the buildings, and have an economic motive to skimp on insulation and windows, are not the people who wind up paying the energy bills. The solution is building codes with strict energy requirements, vigorously enforced. Yet across huge swaths of the United States we still have weak building codes and lousy enforcement.

Building codes, you’re thinking? Yes, I know they seem boring. I am writing a book with an energy expert, Hal Harvey, who has convinced me that they could hardly be more important. A bad building wastes energy for decades. Yet are climate activists swarming Topeka City Hall, the Colorado statehouse or your local county commission to demand tougher building codes? I wish.