An End-of-the-Year Note

You may have noticed that Wordplay does not have a “Best Puzzle of the Year” feature like the ones other crossword blogs sometimes end their year with, and that is deliberate. We try to enjoy the puzzles on an individual basis, because our feeling is that even if the crossword is largely out of our wheelhouse or it just doesn’t ring our bell for whatever reason, there is always something good or fun to be found there. So it wouldn’t make sense in that context to pick a “favorite.”

We — the writers of Wordplay and our readers — have a chance every day to sit down together and talk about a game that we love. That’s a beautiful thing. We will not always agree on everything, and that’s O.K. Wordplay exists as a water cooler discussion, where aspects of this two-dimensional puzzle can leap off the page and help us connect to one another.

It’s the social aspect of solving that I love, and I’ve tried over the years to build a place for constructors, editors and solvers to discuss our puzzles in a kind, educational and amicable way. Thankfully, you have responded with the same love and curiosity I have for this pastime of ours. It’s important to me to tell you that the Wordplay community is admired within these walls for its humanity, its passion and its unbridled enthusiasm.

We want to continue to foster that enthusiasm, so I hope you are enjoying our expanded editorial offerings. So far, we’ve showed people how to solve the New York Times Crossword puzzle and how to make one (including how our puzzle editors get constructors’ work ready for publication), and we are bringing our beloved constructors forward to take a bow in our monthly “Who Made My Puzzle?” spotlights.

In addition, we review words that a majority of solvers missed in our weekly “What the Heck Is That?” and help people expand their wheelhouses or combat areas of weakness with our quarterly topical articles, like Sam Ezersky’s latest, a piece on authors that come up frequently in the New York Times Crossword.

One of the features that is most special to me are our Solver Stories, which share deeply personal events in the lives of our solvers and show how puzzles or games have had an impact on them.

If there is anything we’ve missed or that you’d like to learn more about, please let us know.

So if you’re new here, welcome to Wordplay, and I hope you’ll find a lot to read. If you have been here for a while, thank you for continuing to show up. If you read but don’t comment, thank you for spending time with us; please leave a comment to let us know you’re there. We’d love to hear from you.