There are several reasons for this. There is, for one thing, a fertile crescent of recruiting that stretches roughly from the Houston area through the Deep South and down Florida’s boot. In college football — as in so many other things — personnel are destiny; that Alabama, Clemson and Georgia are close to this bumper crop of players gives them a distinct advantage. It is no coincidence that 12 of the last 13 national titles were won by teams from the Southeast, and if you throw in Central Florida’s claimed national title last season, it is 13 out of 14.

And recruiting matters perhaps more than ever because of several trends: better high school football, which produces more game-ready freshmen; better college development, which enables more underclassmen to enter the N.F.L.; liberalized transfer rules, which accelerate churn. Colleges are reloading bigger proportions of their rosters every year.

Of the handful of coaches who are best at grabbing the elite players out of high school, no one does it better than Alabama’s Nick Saban. Remember, this is not the N.F.L., where teams are allotted equal numbers of draft picks. In college football, teams can sign 20 or 30 new players every year, and no rule limits them from taking a big chunk of the top group. Alabama has had the highest-ranked recruiting class, according to 247Sports’s composite figures, for nearly every year going back to 2011. The one exception was last year, when the highest rank went to Georgia.

Other teams can break through. Ohio State won the 2014 season national championship. Oklahoma has made the past three semifinals, and it gave Alabama a hard time in the second half of Saturday’s game. Jim Harbaugh’s Michigan could sneak into a playoff and show us that we were underrating the Big Ten. Stanford, which zags in recruiting where everyone else zigs by insisting on high academic standards, is perhaps another Andrew Luck away from big-time contention. Southern California could find its next Pete Carroll.

But for now, the winner of the fourth straight Alabama-Clemson game (counting that semifinal) will be the national champion for the fourth straight year.

As for which of the two will be victorious this time, it is worth remembering that Alabama’s biggest question mark was the health of sophomore quarterback Tua Tagovailoa, who had to have ankle surgery after an injury in the SEC title game against Georgia. On Saturday, however, he set worriers at statistical ease, going 24 for 27 with 318 yards, four touchdowns and no interceptions.

Then again, Tagovailoa’s eye-popping numbers came against one of college football’s weakest defenses. When Tagovailoa has met opposition of Clemson’s caliber, the results have been mixed: 166 yards, three touchdowns and an interception in the second half and overtime of last season’s national-title game against Georgia; 164 yards, a touchdown and an interception versus Mississippi State’s top-ranked unit last month. (He fared worse against Georgia this month but was injured for most of the game.)