Season 4, Episode 9: ‘The Birds and the Bees’

The aftermath of Brianna’s rape was always going to be a tough needle to thread.

In narratives about sexual violence (particularly against women), each bears a burden of universality: Every story about rape is, in some way, a story about all rapes. It doesn’t help Brianna’s story that two seemingly-contradictory things are true: Sexual assault is depressingly frequent in real life, and yet “Outlander” overuses it as a plot device. But the real-world stories are the reasons stories of assault should be carefully told, not justifications for scooting a story forward.

Watching Brianna struggle at Fraser’s Ridge, then, was a cognitive-dissonance affair.

It is deeply uncomfortable that Brianna’s rape was apparently a defining moment for her character. We didn’t see enough of Brianna before this to know her as a person, so her character is being formed in front of us primarily as a reaction to her assault. This gets even more complicated given that she’s pregnant, likely by Bonnet. This is the sort of story moment that needs as much character specificity behind it as possible to avoid being exploitative, and we just don’t have that background for Brianna.

At least Brianna gets a full episode in which to process what happened. “Outlander” tends to be myopic about sexual-assault recovery. (Jamie’s healing after his rape took several episodes, while Claire — on the receiving end of countless sexual threats — hasn’t been given time to process any.) But Brianna gets the narrative space to be affected by her rape. We see her struggling in the wake of her reunion with her birth parents: shying away from touch, flinching at the sight of Claire’s new wedding ring, disconnected from life at Fraser’s Ridge.

And she doesn’t immediately move past what happened. We see her struggling with her memories and second-guessing her experience, including her confusion and self-recrimination as she finally tells Claire that night: “I didn’t fight him hard enough. Why the hell didn’t I fight him?”