The team and agent both said Fultz’s condition would be treated with physical therapy, and ESPN’s report indicated Fultz could be back on the court in three to six weeks.

This condition, which the Mayo Clinic says involves a compression of the brachial plexus, “a network of nerves that come from your spinal cord and control muscle movements and sensation in your shoulder, arm and hand,” is typically more associated with baseball players. A host of big-name pitchers, including Matt Harvey, Josh Beckett and Chris Carpenter, have received a similar diagnosis. In perhaps that sport’s most famous case, J.R. Richard, an all-star pitcher for the Houston Astros, had his promising career ended by what was described as vascular thoracic outlet syndrome and a subsequent stroke that was attributed to the condition.

In Fultz’s case, a diagnosis of an actual physical ailment, even a serious one like this, could be a step forward for his career, as it could clear up the perception that his struggles were a confidence problem — “the yips” — rather than an injury.

At one point, Fultz’s success in the N.B.A. seemed predetermined. In his lone college season he was a star for Washington, averaging 23.2 points, 5.9 assists and 5.7 rebounds a game while shooting 41.3 percent from 3-point range. It was his scoring ability at each level of the court that had teams clamoring for a chance to draft him. The 76ers, who were in the process of building a young core, traded up in the draft to select him, giving the Boston Celtics the No. 3 pick in the 2017 draft, and a future first-round pick in exchange for the No. 1 pick.

The problems for Fultz on the professional level were immediately apparent. He showed up to his first training camp with a reworked shooting form that was widely mocked. After just four regular-season games, in which he went 9 for 27 from the field and did not attempt a 3-pointer, he was shut down for five months. His status in that time was highly guarded, with conflicting reports about injury diagnoses and potential mental hangups, many of which focused on the health of his shoulders.