Another one we see is the mention of Trump or his policies as a way to harass people. Things like “Build the wall,” or “You’re going to get deported,” or “Trump is going to deport you.” That’s something we’ve seen quite a bit. Another thing we’ve seen is how Latinos have particularly come under a lot of harassment in public.

Hate crimes are notoriously hard to track as reporting to the F.B.I. is voluntary. What have you learned about the reporting process?

We learned a bit about why they’re so hard to track. We saw how spotty training is for police. It really depends on the state and the city. The police have a very wide range of knowledge about this issue. Some police don’t take these crimes as seriously. Some have dedicated hate crimes units. Others don’t.

In going through the thousands of tips we have and the hundreds of police reports we have, we also see people who don’t want to go to police. Some of the time they don’t want to because they’re scared or they don’t have a great relationship with police. We know from the Bureau of Justice Statistics survey that more than 50 percent of hate crime victims don’t report to police. That’s something we’ve seen reflected in the tips we’ve received.

Is there a specific example that stands out to you?

A couple of weeks ago, Gothamist did a story about a top civil rights official in New York City who was subjected to a hate incident, went to police to report it and have it documented and they were like, “Well, you know, you can do a report, but we’re not going to do anything about it.” I thought that was a really good example of why people don’t end up going to police and why these incidents get lost and nobody knows about them.

How much was the election of Donald Trump a part of launching this project?

That was what made people think that this was a necessary area to explore because after the election, there were a lot of hate incidents being reported in the press and on social media. There seemed to be an increase in the aftermath of the election. And later on, that increase was reflected in the F.B.I. data. There was a sense that, if the climate is this way right after the election, that it could continue to be a problem and we should keep an eye on it.