It would be great if representations like these made it into the mainstream, though I’m not hopeful. The fiscal conservatism of the industry doesn’t yield many bold, creative choices when it comes to the roles men and women are allowed to play. Disney occasionally makes splashy news with some of its directorial choices, notably Ava DuVernay for the female-driven fantasy “A Wrinkle in Time.” The studio excels at selling girl power. Behind the scenes, though, the people making the decisions remain overwhelming white and male; just four out of the 15 people on Walt Disney Studios’ executive team are women, a gender disparity shared by the other big studios.

You don’t have to look at the executive ranks to know that the industry has a long way to go before real change happens. Just look at the movies, the most popular of which remain male-directed and male-driven. It will be a while before we know if the allegations against men in the industry will have any impact on the kinds of stories we see, particularly at the big-studio level; it can often take a long time to make a movie. Yet if precedence is any guide, the industry will continue to issue apologies and make earnest-sounding promises — it is already casting out its designated monsters. But until men share real power with women, little of substance will change.

It wasn’t until powerful men were accused of sexually dehumanizing women that the industry’s sexism seemed on notice. Yet as time has passed, too often the focus has shifted to these men, with stories about their falls and potential next steps. I don’t care what Weinstein is going to do next; I’m interested in the women he allegedly assaulted. (He has denied the allegations.) I am also interested in the systems of power that permit male abuse and demand female (and male) silence in return. When we talk about industry sexism, the discussions often earnestly turn on words like representation and inclusion, but what we are talking about is an industry that systematically sees and treats women as inferior.

This sexism demands moral outrage too.