64A: New to me but an occasional ingredient in Times puzzles, the FOVEA is really sort of negative space, a dimple where millions of cones congregate to receive and transmit information from your eye’s direct field of vision.

3D: Sort of an odd clue for this physical reaction, although I’ll allow it: I usually think of a “groan” in response to a “really bad pun,” or a “flinch” — a TWITCH can happen too, of course. I wonder if this is meant to refer to an eye twitch, actually.

41D: There were a few spots in this puzzle that were designed to look improbable; the beginning of this entry, NFC EAST, slowed my roll for a bit until I mentally shifted my “cowboys” from saddles to football positions.

Today’s Theme

There are nine theme answers, almost equally divided between across and down entries, that are common phrases that each contain one small but mighty word. Once this word is excised, eight new terms appear, which are cutely clued by Mr. Vaughn. What could that little word be? I’ve been trying to write this column without using it, and it’s been dreadful. It’s “the,” which I guess goes along with the (ahh!) puzzle’s title, ‘No Duh!’, if you allow that “the” can sound like “duh” when some people say it. It seems that “Duh” either came from “Uh” or “the” and for some reason the utterance stuck — often a 1943 Bugs Bunny cartoon is cited as an early appearance, which seems to have evolved in the alternate animation universe to the Simpsons’s “D’oh,” but that’s probably tangential.

Anyway! The phrases at hand are terrifically common, like 16D: “Buy one circus animal, get one circus animal free?” Well, that’s a SEAL DEAL, wouldn’t you agree? A transformation of a common phrase that you’ve certainly heard, probably recently, in our peak capitalist society: “Seal the deal.” The rest are variations on that, and they’re quite funny and sweet. I was much amused by 45A, “Cuban or Zuckerberg?,” to the point that I went off looking for a “Zuckerberg” sandwich (kidding). Each is a WELL OFF MARK (although the second guy lost a ton of money this year! It’s only on paper; don’t feel bad for him).