Headliner

TabeTomo

People line up for ramen all the time. But in Los Angeles and Hawaii, they’ll evidently wait hours for tsukemen, a style of ramen invented in Tokyo that involves serving the noodles and broth in separate bowls so you can dip one into the other. It’s not new in New York; Masaharu Morimoto’s Momosan in Midtown Manhattan serves it. But it’s the showcase item at this compact new spot in the East Village, co-owned by Tomotsugu Kubo , who worked at the Tsujita restaurants, tsukemen hotspots in Los Angeles, and who was head chef at one of them. In New York, Mr. Kubo says he will take up to 60 hours to simmer his broth to deep perfection. The noodles are thicker than garden-variety ramen, the better to sop up the soup, and additions like eggs, pork belly, spinach and dried seaweed can dress up the meal. Regular ramen bowls are also served. Donburi rice bowls topped with sashimi or fried chicken, among other options, are also on the lineup, along with appetizers like crisp chicken skin, braised pork belly, edamame and pickles . The focus of the room is a large counter with seating on three sides.

131 Avenue A (St. Marks Place), 646-850-6414, tabetomonyc.com.

Opening

La Rossa

Stefano Callegari, a former Alitalia flight attendant, studied pizza during more than 100 stopovers in Naples, and wound up opening pizzerias in Rome, Florence and Milan. Now he is bringing his signature style to SoHo. Individual round pizzas come with toppings that are classic and inventive, like cacio e pepe, and mozzarella, Stilton and port. He will also sell square Roman-style sheet pizzas whole or by the slice, and supplì large, gooey rice balls. There is waiter service for the 32 seats and a few outdoors. (Opens Friday)

267 Lafayette Street (Prince Street), 917-262-0302 larossa.love.

Encore

Fresh from opening Swan in the design district of Miami, the French celebrity chef Jean Imbert, who also runs several places in Paris, is now in the kitchen at this spacious meatpacking district addition. Eric Cerato, a restaurateur who moved to New York from France with ambitious plans, is behind the venture. Mr. Cerato has opened Wanderlust in Midtown Manhattan and taken over La Mangeoire , which he plans to reopen soon. The new restaurant, with 175 seats spread over several dining areas, features Mr. Imbert’s inventive French-American dishes like sea urchin toast; cauliflower three ways; eggs with leeks and avocado; gnocchi with vegetables and radish leaves; his grandmother’s blanquette de veau; and pork ribs with honey and potatoes Anna. Showy desserts include a passion-fruit soufflé and a peanut butter tart. (Wednesday)

1 Little West 12th Street ( Greenwich Street), 929-341-4890, encorenyc.com.

Teo

His popular Brooklyn Star closed this year; the next act for Joaquin (Quino) Baca is this izakaya-style spot. He’ll be at the stove, in an open kitchen with a counter on two sides, dishing up his take on some Japanese and not-so-Japanese items. Expect eggplant katsudon with charred cabbage chow chow, sweetbread teriyaki, duck leg ramen, and an okonomiyaki pancake with shaved Benton’s ham, mayonnaise and smoked tobiko roe. (Saturday)

321 Starr Street (Cypress Avenue), Bushwick, Brooklyn, 347-627-6156.