“Depending on what carrier the recipient is on, you’ll need to make sure that the phone is compatible with that particular network,” he explained in an email. “This is most true for Verizon and Sprint, which tend to be more strict with bring-your-own-device policies. While most phones these days are quad-band” — meaning they should work on all major carriers — “there are definitely still some outliers that don’t offer the compatible bands for all networks. This is most true for new iPhones, which should be purchased for the specific network they will be used on.”

This can be easier said than done. As Mr. Summerson points out, the iPhone faces a unique problem. If you buy one from Apple directly, or buy a phone from Verizon or Sprint, it will include both the radios required to work on Verizon and Sprint as well as the radio most of the rest of the world uses. Once unlocked, that phone will work on just about any carrier.

However, if you buy an iPhone from AT&T or T-Mobile, it will only include the radio that those carriers support, which means you won’t be able to take it to Verizon or Sprint. See the problem?

You can use a site like FrequencyCheck.com to look up specific phones by model number to make sure they work on the carrier your recipient uses. However, the most surefire way to make sure you’re getting a phone that works on a certain carrier is to buy it from that carrier (or an authorized reseller like Best Buy). If you’re stepping out into used phones or buying directly from the phone manufacturer, that’s when you need to be careful.

It’s also worth checking with your gift recipient about their upgrade status. Most carriers have switched to a phone financing model, where you add a monthly fee to your plan until you’ve paid off your phone. However, some customers may still have the old two-year contract model, where you get a discount on a new phone in exchange for committing to another two-year contract. It might ruin the surprise a little, but if your recipient has an upgrade available and doesn’t plan to change carriers, paying for an upgrade to a phone of their choosing might be cheaper (and better for them) than buying a new phone outright.