Based on the 2015 young-adult novel by Julie Murphy that shares its title, the movie takes place in a generic fantasy of a small town where working-class life looks comfortably middle class. After the usual introductions and fussing, the story gets down to business, which mostly involves Will’s sudden struggle for self-acceptance. Her newfound doubt emerges when she starts a tentative romance with a hunky cutie, Bo (Luke Benward), who, like many of the movie’s high schoolers looks as if he’s already graduated from college. There’s something percolating between them, but Will freaks when, mid-kiss, Bo’s hand caresses her back or, as she thinks of it, her back fat.

Will retreats, stricken by uncertainty. For once, she isn’t looking at herself through her own and Aunt Lucy’s accepting eyes, but through the punishing, disapproving gaze of others (like Rosie and the town’s clods). It’s a promising, poignant crisis that the director Anne Fletcher swamps with gauzy sentimentalism and cutesy comedy, particularly once Will decides to turn a beauty pageant into a means of personal revolt. Before long the pageant takes over the story, and Will’s rebellious gesture against conformity becomes just another way that girls of any size can assert their worth. It’s also where Fletcher, whose work here is strictly, drearily functional, snaps awake.

Macdonald was sensational in the under-loved indie comedy “Patti Cake$,” and she easily holds the screen here, too, even when working on fumes and with dumb shtick. She and an energetic cast that also includes the very good Maddie Baillio and Harold Perrineau keep you hopeful even when the storytelling grinds to a crawl, which happens frequently. Kristin Hahn’s script gives Will sassy lines and too many tears, but the filmmakers never give this character a real, searching, complex inner life. They give her problems to solve, hurdles to clear. They turn emotional complexity into affirmations and a potentially transformational character into a you-go-girl cliché.