The indictment, unsealed in the Southern District of New York, focuses on three advisers: Ramses Owens, a Panamanian lawyer at Mossack Fonseca; Dirk Brauer, a German investment adviser for Mossfon Asset Management, an asset management affiliated with the law firm; and Richard Gaffey, an American accountant in Boston.

According to the indictment, the men helped United States taxpayers evade taxes by using undisclosed foreign accounts and shell companies in places like the British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong and Panama. They also instructed them on how to repatriate those offshore funds to the United States while concealing them from the I.R.S. Among the clients who participated in the scheme, prosecutors said, was Harald Joachim von der Goltz, an 81-year-old German citizen who lived in the United States and began a business relationship with Mossack Fonseca in the 1980s. According to federal prosecutors, he avoided taxes by claiming that accounts he failed to report to the I.R.S. were owned by his 102-year-old mother.

The Panama Papers — millions of confidential documents from the Mossack Fonseca law firm — were first revealed in April 2016 through a collaboration between the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung and the nonprofit International Consortium of Investigative Journalists. The documents shed light on the often illicit methods used by the wealthy and powerful to launder money, hide income and evade taxes through the use of offshore bank accounts and shell companies in island havens. The law firm shut down in March.

The original leak revealed the transfer of hundreds of millions of dollars to accounts connected to a cellist and close friend of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, as well as a British Virgin Islands company used by Prime Minister Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson of Iceland, which led to his resignation. Earlier this year, Pakistan’s former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, was convicted and sentenced to 10 years in prison after the Panama Papers revealed undeclared property owned by his family overseas.

Mr. Gaffey, an accountant at Elder, Gaffey & Paine in Marlborough, Mass., was arrested in Boston on Tuesday. Neither he nor his lawyers responded to requests for comment Tuesday evening.