When we dropped her off at the airport after several days, Grandma started to weep. She knew she’d behaved poorly, not just to me, but with numerous other little barbs aimed at my mom, dad and sister. Something cracked between us all that day; it was clear, even to me, that she was no longer welcome in our house, that she wouldn’t visit us again, and that my dad was unlikely to take us to the South Bronx to see her.

Over the next 20 years, I began to come out to the world: first to my parents at age 16, then my select friends in my early 20s, and finally, at 28, on the cover of my local L.G.B.T. magazine.

Grandma never found out. We had short phone conversations on holidays and birthdays. “I just want you to know how much I love you and think about you all the time,” she’d say before handing the phone back to my aunt.

As I grew older, my face started looking more and more like Grandma’s: the same crease of our cheeks when we smiled, the same way we clenched our teeth when we were barely smiling, a cheeky gleam in our eyes that dared people to guess what we were really thinking.

My mom pointed it out over dinner. “She looks just like Olimpia!” she’d say, and my dad could barely look at me in that moment, pained to see the face of the woman who never gave him the love and support he needed.

But the smaller details, the sort of things you feel but can’t see, were what really got me. I love — love! — shopping at the mall; so did she. My aunt told me about how Grandma would ask her to open the front door because she “needed the air,” sitting on a chair in the open doorway. Likewise, I found myself “needing the air” when I was stressed, sitting on a kitchen chair looking onto my patio. We shared unusual eating habits: I’d hold a cookie in my lips and devour it, hands free; that’s how Grandma ate buttery Pepperidge Farm Milanos and Chessmen.

Even with this, I knew our commonalities were a double-edged sword: She was someone who was intolerant of other people’s decisions; when I was born, she insisted on calling me Joanna instead of Joanne. My mom, still lying in a hospital bed, had to duke it out with her about my true name. Even from the start, Grandma wanted it her way. I know how it feels; will I someday be as ornery as her?