Of course, the flip side is that WhatsApp can be and has been deployed in malicious ways to manipulate elections and spread false news. But reporting this story was a reminder that these platforms can unite people in meaningful ways.

I had seen many debates over family recipes unfold in my own WhatsApp groups with Indian relatives, and I wanted to better understand the connection between WhatsApp and food culture in India. I regularly report for the Food section, and the stories that interest me most are those that use food as a lens to view another topic — be it religion, architecture or, in this case, technology. In India, culinary traditions are often exchanged verbally, rather than in writing — my great-aunt can never list the ingredients for her kheer (a kind of rice pudding) on paper, but she can tell me as she’s cooking the dish. I thought that maybe the ubiquity of WhatsApp was changing that. Perhaps certain Indian recipes, cooking techniques and indigenous food knowledge were being recorded for the first time on the platform.

I started by searching Indian newspapers for any mention of food-related WhatsApp groups, and then I put out a call to my family members, friends and colleagues who lived in India. Among others, I learned about Baliraja, a WhatsApp support forum for farmers in India (suicides by farmers with unpaid debts are a huge issue in the country), and PB Kitchen, a group for the women in an apartment complex in the southern state of Kerala that allowed them to buy and sell one another’s homemade food.

But I didn’t know how I would be able to get in touch with these sources. I didn’t have the budget to travel to far-flung corners of India to reach people, some of whom had no internet presence.

WhatsApp is not a searchable database — that is, you can’t type in someone’s name and find a number, or find a group without having been invited to it. But by putting out a call on the app, my mom’s friend Sunitha, who lives in Kerala, a state with a population of 33 million, was able to get contact information for Bharathy Gopalakrishnan, the founder of PB Kitchen.