New this week:

A HISTORY OF AMERICA IN 100 MAPS By Susan Schulten. (University of Chicago, $35.) Maps often capture history much more economically than any narrative. This is Schulten’s premise, which she supports by offering 100 cartographic snapshots of America from the European arrival to the digital age. FLYING TOO CLOSE TO THE SUN By James Cahill. (Phaidon, $59.95.) Cahill, who has written widely about the influence of classical antiquity on contemporary art, presents a lush and wide-ranging visual overview that moves from Botticelli and Caravaggio to Jeff Koons and Damien Hirst. NASHVILLE By Ann Patchett, with photographs by Heidi Ross and an introduction by Jon Meacham. (Harper Design, $35.) This love letter to Nashville comes from Patchett, the award-winning novelist and local bookstore owner, and Ross, whose photographs have appeared in Vanity Fair and Rolling Stone. They make the case for “the new American South” as embodied in this historic, vibrant city. YO SOY FIDEL By Michael Christopher Brown, text by Martin Parr and John Lee Andersen. (Damiani, $50.) Brown tells the story of contemporary Cuba by following the cortège of Fidel Castro in late 2016 as it makes its way from Havana to Santiago and snapping pictures of the roadside crowds. The faces are mournful and hopeful. SHADE By Pete Souza. (Little, Brown, $30.) Once President Obama’s official photographer, Souza is now just a “concerned citizen.” He uses photos of the former president to make pointed comparisons between the current occupant of the White House and the one whom he knew best.

& Noteworthy

In which we ask colleagues at The Times what they’re reading now.

“The final selection in CLOSE RANGE, a collection of short fictions by Annie Proulx, is ‘Brokeback Mountain,’ a tale of yearning between two cowboys who begin a passionate relationship during a stint on a mountain tending sheep. Having seen the 2005 film version, I read that one first and was crushed by its sadness beautifully etched in hard prose. We reporters often try to establish a sense of place by using heavy-handed description, and by draping details onto some newsy narrative. Proulx forges it with spare language and terse, tough dialogue. The collection’s other stories are no less bleak, about people eking out hardpan livings on failing ranches, in defeated families, in tough cowboy bars — or in the case of ‘The Mud Below,’ on the backs of mean bulls on the rodeo circuit. Proulx’s stories are bumpy rides through a corner of the American West that seems fertile only in producing rue and loneliness and pain.”

— Corey Kilgannon, metro reporter