This is a task we began to undertake, at least partially, in Chile. Thanks to an aggressive energy agenda set in 2014, during my second term as president, we have tripled the quantity of renewable energies in our matrix and lowered prices from $130 to $32 per megawatt hour. Before 2014, not only were we dependent on energy imported from other countries, we were also at the mercy of long, severe droughts. Since then, we have harnessed the power of the sun and the wind in our deserts and along our coastlines, and made use of steam from deep inside our volcanoes via geothermal plants. We increased the area of ocean waters under state protection to preserve our fishing resources and the coastline ecosystem. By working with the private sector, we were also able to increase land protection to an area the size of Switzerland, which opens up enormous possibilities in the development of sustainable tourism. We are also investing in the future with the first green taxes in the region, and the prohibition of plastic bags.

We have demonstrated that productive models can evolve. As people have discovered in Iceland and Costa Rica, we have found that reducing emissions is good business. And we have shown that all countries, small and big, can spearhead relevant solutions to environmental challenges.

But if we really want global transformation, we cannot expect each country to do the same thing, and do it on its own. We must commit our collective energies to defending the common good, and finding a balance between economic growth, job creation and environmental demands. We fail if we continue to do things as usual. Such continuity has become a fatal path amid the explosive growth of populations, the growing demand for energy and our dangerous consumption habits. International cooperation, such as efforts like the Paris Agreement and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, provide a framework to coordinate efforts, support laggard nations and suggest alternatives.

Image Michelle Bachelet Credit... Presidency of the Republic of Chile

But we also need to move forward with a strategy — much as the United States did with the Marshall Plan, offering economic aid to Europe after World War II — that speeds up our actions, allows viable investments to make the difference and, among other things, absorbs the risks of the productive turn our economies require.

A world of untapped possibilities emerges, for example, when we consider energy transformation. Project Drawdown, a nonprofit environmental coalition, estimates that an increase to 21.6 percent in the global production of onshore wind electricity by 2050 would reduce CO2 emissions by 84.6 gigatons and save $7.4 trillion.

The time has come to put a price on the type of development that can be expected to generate lasting cohesion and peace. Because that’s what this is all about: humanity’s survival, done right.