She made a honey syrup spiked with all the classic ashure flavorings, including cinnamon, cardamom and a spice called mahaleb. She drizzled the syrup over a mixture of puffed wheat, nuts and seeds, and baked the whole thing into a gloriously crisp mass. “Using puffed wheat solved all the issues of it being slimy and chewy,” she explained.

When I visited Honey & Co. earlier this year, I bought a bag of ashure after Packer told me her employees call it “crack.” In my hotel room later that night, I couldn’t resist tasting it, even though I’d just brushed my teeth. The cereal looked like a cross between granola and Cracker Jack, with dark, shiny brown clusters of puffed wheat, almonds, pecans and seeds. It smelled like burned honey, spring flowers and cardamom. As I bit into a piece, it burst in my mouth, somehow simultaneously light and rich, sweet and savory, crisp and full of air. I was in trouble. Standing there in my pajamas, I ate nearly half the bag. I ate the rest over the next few days, as Packer serves it, over yogurt with fresh berries.

That was in April. I’ve thought about it every week since. So finally, a month ago, I dug up the recipe. What charmed me so much about Packer’s ashure is that it’s simultaneously classic and innovative. By using a different form of wheat, Packer was able to retain an ingredient list that is actually quite traditional while also making the texture more appealing to a modern, crunch-obsessed palate. And the ashure was surprisingly simple. My biggest concern was the mahaleb; I’d never heard of it before, and worried I wouldn’t be able to find any. Then I chuckled when I learned what it is: the ground-up pit of the St. Lucie cherry. I’ve proclaimed my love of stone-fruit pits in these pages, and have long found the flavor of noyaux, or apricot pits, to be indescribably enchanting. Happily, I found mahaleb, rife with the same haunting, almondy aroma as noyaux, at my local Middle Eastern grocer. In fact, I found it trickier to find puffed wheat, and ended up instead using kamut, an ancient variety of the grain that worked beautifully. Because I couldn’t trust myself to keep the ashure in the house longer than overnight, I bagged it up and gave it away. Then I made more the following week.

I wondered how Packer’s family back in Israel — perhaps the ultimate arbiters of traditional taste — felt about her changes to the recipe. “I always have to bring a few bags of it back home,” she said with a smile. “Everyone in my family eats it in milk. Their favorite part is drinking up the sweet, spiced milk at the end of the bowl.” The cereal burst in my mouth, light and rich, sweet and savory, crisp and full of air.