According to the O.E.C.D., France has low rates of poverty among the elderly, and people over 65 earn on average more than the general population.

China

China’s one-child policy, which lasted nearly four decades to 2015, and the expansion of benefits to rural citizens has helped to create the perfect storm of a shrinking work force and a growing pension deficit. Restrictions on the country’s pension funds were relaxed in recent years, allowing the funds to invest in the stock market for the first time. The government is also encouraging the growth of a private pension system to put the onus on the individual to save for retirement and to ease the reliance on the largely state-funded coverage.

Britain

As The New York Times has reported, Britain’s extended stretch of austerity measures has chipped away at the country’s social safety net. An O.E.C.D. report found that the United Kingdom had high levels of poverty among those 75 and over because of the low state pension. It also said British workers would receive about less than a third of their working salary in retirement benefits, which is the lowest among developed countries. In October, two regulatory bodies announced a review of the pensions process, noting concerns that many future retirees won’t have enough money, or little money, to live on. Britain does not have a mandatory retirement age, but the government recently announced it was gradually increasing the pension age for women from 60 to 65 to get it in line with the pension age for men. The pension age will then increase to 66 for both men and women from 2019 to 2020, with a further increase to 67 planned for 2026.

Canada



In Canada, you can receive a pension, called Old Age Security, from the age of 65, or a reduced pension as early as 60. After Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was elected in 2015, he reversed a plan by his predecessor, the Conservative Stephen Harper, to raise the eligibility age to 67. But Canada has undertaken other reforms, such as increasing the pension benefits from a mandatory system known as the Canada Pension Plan. Employers’ contributions to the plan will rise to 5.95 percent of wages, up from 4.95 percent. More than 40 percent of Canadians have an additional voluntary contribution plan. Canada’s universal health care system also helps to lower the financial burden on retirees.

Australia



Australia’s retirement system consists of a means-tested pension paid to those whose income is under a certain limit, and a compulsory company pension plan known as superannuation, which requires employers to contribute 9.5 percent of a worker’s wages to a fund. Workers receive tax incentives to make voluntary contributions. The country does have a gender gap in retirement savings through superannuation, with a recent report from the Australian Bureau of Statistics showing that women reach retirement with about 37 percent less in savings than men. Australia doesn’t have mandatory retirement, except in very few occupations, and the minimum age for withdrawing super benefits is as low as 55, depending on the year in which a person was born. The current pension age is 65 years and six months, which is increasing to 67 by 2023. The country’s ruling Liberal party, which is conservative, despite the moniker, has been trying to raise the pension age to 70. In September, Prime Minister Scott Morrison abandoned the efforts.

The Netherlands

The country’s system is made up of a state pension supplemented with mandatory occupational plans. Workers contribute an average of 18 percent of their incomes into the corporate pension funds, which are separate from the employer or company under Dutch law and strictly regulated. The retirement age in the Netherlands will soon be linked to life expectancy, but it is currently 66 and will rise to 67 in 2021. The average retiree will receive around 100 percent of their previous income in retirement benefits, according to the O.E.C.D., which also noted that poverty among the elderly was extremely low compared with the average among other developed countries.