In the draft, the investigators expressed concern that women were not being promoted into key positions at CBS News, and that a more muscular process was needed to protect employees who alleged misbehavior. But they also did not find that there was “a toxic work or ‘frat house’ environment for women” at the wider news division.

CBS declined to comment on the draft report, as did a representative for the board.

Since Mr. Fager’s dismissal, “60 Minutes” has been operating under a cloud of uncertainty. The show is currently run by Bill Owens, who was second in command to Mr. Fager and is on a short list of candidates to take over the show.

The investigators wrote that Mr. Fager had behaved inappropriately with colleagues in several instances. They said they believed that he had “engaged in some type of sexually inappropriate conduct” toward a CBS employee who alleged in 2009 that he had groped her. Another CBS News employee alleged that Mr. Fager had tried to kiss her with an open mouth at a corporate event about six years ago. The report also said a female employee had been instructed to drive him and other producers to a legal brothel while reporting a story in Nevada.

“This is the first I am hearing some of these allegations about my personal conduct,” Mr. Fager wrote in an email to The Times. “I’m surprised and devastated to hear them from The New York Times since I was not given the opportunity by CBS investigators to respond to their accuracy.”

Mr. Moonves, during an interview with CBS’s outside investigators in September, disclosed that CBS had paid $950,000 to a woman who had made claims of age and sex discrimination and had accused Mr. Fager of sexual misconduct. Investigators were not able to interview the woman, they wrote in the report, and while they could not rule it out, they found “no credible evidence” to confirm her account of misconduct.

The investigators found that Mr. Fager had failed to respond appropriately to accusations of bullying against Michael Radutzky, a former senior producer on “60 Minutes,” and harassment against Ira Rosen, currently a producer on the show.