Mr. Weinreich learned about defect petitions, which do not require a lawyer to file but must contain more supporting information than a conventional complaint, on the N.H.T.S.A. website. He sent a petition detailing how the control arm — a key steering component — broke away from the rusted frame. He pointed to 272 complaints, which he updated in a second document to 464, of rusted frames from other owners.

“We were traveling on a two-lane highway when, without warning, the suspension/steering system separated from the frame due to excessive frame corrosion,” he wrote the agency in August. “It was difficult to prevent the vehicle from veering into oncoming traffic.”

Mr. Weinreich contacted Toyota and got no help, he said. Tania Saldana, a spokeswoman for the automaker, said Toyota was aware of his defect petition “and is fully cooperating with the agency.”

To address his problem, Mr. Weinreich could have filed a conventional complaint; the agency says it reviews each one. However, faced with tens of thousands of complaints annually, federal regulators have missed major safety problems — like the ignition-key defect that could turn off General Motors vehicles and disable the driver’s airbag. Plus, it would be unusual for the agency to begin an investigation based on a single complaint.

Mr. Weinreich wanted to make sure his concern got attention from an agency that admits it needs more people. A 2015 internal review said the agency needed a huge boost in resources to deal with increasingly complex vehicles. It said the agency had about 60 people handling all its defect investigations — including petitions — and ideally should have about six times that number.

The agency did not respond to requests for its current employment numbers. Instead, it said that its “defect investigation staff has grown significantly over the past few years,” and that the agency was trying to hire more statisticians, data analysts and engineers, including those with expertise in electronics.