I lost one such dear friend, a brilliant poet named Max Ritvo, two years ago, when he was 25. We wrote about 500 letters back and forth before he died, and at some point we decided to make a book of them. Max had a rare genius for friendship, and for the writing of poetry. Our friendship, which I think would have been lifelong, had to be compressed into the four years we knew each other.

I first met him when he walked into my undergraduate playwriting class at Yale. In his application to get into the class he wrote, “All I want to do is write.” He seemed to have an ancient light bulb hovering over his head. He’d read everything, and he was also very funny. He loved to make a joke; looking like a young Mike Nichols, he would gaze up from under his thick spectacles to see whether his joke had found its target.

At the end of the semester, Max told the class that he’d had a recurrence of Ewing’s sarcoma, a rare pediatric cancer he’d battled in high school. My father died of cancer when I was 20, and I knew from experience that most of Max’s peers did not have mortality on the brain. I told Max that he could talk to me about his fears if he wanted to. He wanted to. Our friendship was accelerated by the urgency of his questions.

Max worked hard to graduate from Yale while going through chemotherapy and surgeries. With an awareness of time, he went to Columbia to get his M.F.A. in poetry, wrote an extraordinary book of poetry called “Four Reincarnations,” fell in love with a young woman, got married, wrote even more poems and gave of himself, always, to his wide circle of friends.

Unlike me, Max was an extroverted writer, which is something of an anomaly. When he read his poems aloud, he shouted them to a crowded room, circling and often wearing a pink kimono. He collected friends readily, intensely and demonstratively. Max knew he didn’t have time for the slow reveal. He once recited a poem to me in his booming voice standing up in a Brooklyn cafe. When I indicated a measure of embarrassment, Max was horrified and apologetic, waving his arms. No, no, I assured him. I was embarrassed in the way that Elizabeth Bishop was when she read a poem that moved her — she didn’t want to look at it directly.