To share a personal experience, in the aftermath of the Egyptian revolution, I set up a temporary studio at a local arts organization near Tahrir Square in Cairo. I shot a series of portraits of grieving elderly Egyptian men and women as they described tragedies, such as the loss of their children, that they experienced during the revolution. I had hoped to capture the human cost behind such euphoric revolutions, which often hit impoverished communities the hardest.

Soon after this photographic series, “Our House Is on Fire,” was exhibited at the Rauschenberg Foundation’s gallery space in New York, a nonprofit organization who had originally commissioned the project, a critic published a piece accusing me of framing Egyptians’ sorrows for commercial galleries in Chelsea to invoke pity and ultimately profit, clearly oblivious to the fact that proceeds from online sales went to charity organizations of my choosing in Egypt.

After reading the criticism of “Our House is on Fire,” I was taken aback, wondering whether the critic’s interpretation and accusations may have been correct. Was I guilty of manipulating people’s emotions to make art? Or was he wrong by grossly misrepresenting the truth and bending a narrative that fit his own anti-art world and political agenda?

But then again, whenever there has been human loss, conflict or tragedy, there has also been art. There are also vastly different value systems that judge the validity and appropriateness of such art, which often at its purest intent is meant to make sense out of shambles, to distill essence out of chaos.

Take, for example, the world-renowned Chinese dissident artist, Ai Weiwei, whose feature-length film, “Human Flow,” documented the devastating global refugee crisis. While on the surface it is highly commendable for a well-to-do, established artist to place himself at the heart of such human and political catastrophes, I could not help but wonder about his intention and the nature and impact of his work. Was Ai exploiting a human tragedy to bring attention to himself and to profit? Or was his work helping raise awareness about the refugee crisis? Who is his audience and how could art make any difference in a world flooded with news and images of this unfolding misery?