8. Saudi Arabia hosts first fashion week

Saudi Arabia hosted its first-ever fashion week in Riyadh, in April. The event still bore hallmarks of the conservative kingdom. Despite the all-female audiences, a social media ban was in place so photos of women without their abayas, or floor-length overgarments, wouldn’t leak. Organizers, however, hailed the event as a pivotal moment for women in a country where they still are expected to defer to their male guardians.

9. Chinese company surpasses Apple’s smartphone sales

For the first time, the Chinese company Huawei has outstripped Apple smartphone sales, selling more than 54 million phones in the second quarter of 2018, compared to Apple’s 41 million, and trailing only Samsung. The company’s success is all the more impressive considering that Huawei has failed to make inroads in some of the world’s largest markets, including the United States, in part because of corporate and government espionage fears.

10. Paris museum opens its doors to nudists

For the first time in Paris, a museum has welcomed nude figures of a different kind: living ones. The Palais de Tokyo contemporary art museum opened its doors to nudists for a one-off tour scheduled by the Paris Naturists Association. Paris also has the world’s first naturist restaurant, O’Naturel, which opened in late 2017, as well as an area at a public park that is dedicated to people who prefer wearing their birthday suits.

11. Machine tackles sea of plastic garbage

The world’s first machine designed to clean up plastic detritus from the ocean — the brainchild of a college dropout who came up with the idea as a teenager— was deployed in September toward what’s widely known as the “great Pacific garbage patch.” This expanse of ocean, located between Hawaii and California, has the world’s largest accumulation of ocean plastic. Some experts, however, are worried that the machine will do more harm than good, arguing that it would be better to focus on efforts preventing plastic from entering the seas in the first place.